# 5500-5509 Events

- [5500-5509 Events](#5500-5509-events)
- [5500](#5500)
  - [Apr-2 Start](#apr-2-start)
  - [Apr-3 (Plague)](#apr-3-plague)
  - [Apr-5 (Canga Dies)](#apr-5-canga-dies)
  - [Apr-6 (Colmea Founded)](#apr-6-colmea-founded)
  - [Apr-10 (Raid, Burglar Monsters)](#apr-10-raid-burglar-monsters)
  - [Apr-13 (Gray's Wife)](#apr-13-grays-wife)
  - [Apr-14 (Roles Change)](#apr-14-roles-change)
  - [Jul-1](#jul-1)
  - [Jul-2](#jul-2)
  - [Jul-5](#jul-5)
  - [Jul-7 (Raid, White Mesa Settlement)](#jul-7-raid-white-mesa-settlement)
  - [Jul-10](#jul-10)
  - [Jul-11](#jul-11)
  - [Jul-12](#jul-12)
  - [Jul-14](#jul-14)
  - [Sep-2](#sep-2)
  - [Sep-4 (Gray/Bascu Lovers)](#sep-4-graybascu-lovers)
  - [Sep-9 (Gray/Bascu Engagement)](#sep-9-graybascu-engagement)
  - [Sep-11 (Pillage Raid, Svenke's Clan)](#sep-11-pillage-raid-svenkes-clan)
  - [Dec-2 (Slaver Raid, Svenke's Clan)](#dec-2-slaver-raid-svenkes-clan)
  - [Dec-7 (Neighbors)](#dec-7-neighbors)
  - [Dec-8](#dec-8)
  - [Dec-9](#dec-9)
  - [Dec-13 (Raid, White Mesa Settlement)](#dec-13-raid-white-mesa-settlement)
- [5501](#5501)
  - [Apr-2 (Bascu Pregnancy)](#apr-2-bascu-pregnancy)
  - [Apr-5 (Dabami Returns)](#apr-5-dabami-returns)
  - [Apr-6](#apr-6)
  - [Apr-7 (Bascu/Gray Marriage)](#apr-7-bascugray-marriage)
  - [Jul-5 (Raro Birth, Plague)](#jul-5-raro-birth-plague)
  - [Jul-7 (Dabami's Death)](#jul-7-dabamis-death)
  - [Jul-9](#jul-9)
  - [Jul-12](#jul-12-1)
  - [Sep-1 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)](#sep-1-raid-trumkariss-pact)
  - [Sep-15 (Kamira Leaves)](#sep-15-kamira-leaves)
  - [Dec-8](#dec-8-1)
- [5502](#5502)
  - [Apr-5 (Raro, Age 3)](#apr-5-raro-age-3)
  - [Apr-8 (Raid, Loreilue Tribe)](#apr-8-raid-loreilue-tribe)
  - [Jul-10 (Bascu Pregnancy)](#jul-10-bascu-pregnancy)
  - [Sep-10 (Raid, Burglar Monsters)](#sep-10-raid-burglar-monsters)
  - [Sep-15 (Naque Birth)](#sep-15-naque-birth)
  - [Dec-3 (Oyys Joins)](#dec-3-oyys-joins)
  - [Dec-7 (Oyys Conversion)](#dec-7-oyys-conversion)
  - [Dec-8 (1st Reformation)](#dec-8-1st-reformation)
  - [Dec-10 (Schnook Joins)](#dec-10-schnook-joins)
- [5503](#5503)
  - [Apr-3-5503](#apr-3-5503)
  - [Apr-4-5503 (Raro Age 7)](#apr-4-5503-raro-age-7)
  - [Apr-13-5503 (Plague)](#apr-13-5503-plague)
  - [Jul-1-5503 (Cold Snap)](#jul-1-5503-cold-snap)
  - [Jul-2-5503 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)](#jul-2-5503-raid-trumkariss-pact)
  - [Jul-5-5503 (Schnook Age 10)](#jul-5-5503-schnook-age-10)
  - [Jul-6-5503 (Royal Tribute Collector)](#jul-6-5503-royal-tribute-collector)
  - [Jul-15-5503 (Naque, Age 3)](#jul-15-5503-naque-age-3)
  - [Sep-1-5503 (Marina, Female Labrador Retriever)](#sep-1-5503-marina-female-labrador-retriever)
  - [Sep-8-5503 (Guard Pet Quest)](#sep-8-5503-guard-pet-quest)
  - [Sep-11-5503 (Oyys Loaned Out)](#sep-11-5503-oyys-loaned-out)
  - [Sep-13-5503 (Pilstl Joins)](#sep-13-5503-pilstl-joins)
  - [Sep-15-5503 (Plague)](#sep-15-5503-plague)
  - [Dec-2-5503 (Pilstl Dies)](#dec-2-5503-pilstl-dies)
  - [Dec-3-5503 (Choke Trash Raid)](#dec-3-5503-choke-trash-raid)
  - [Dec-5-5503 (Raro, Age 10)](#dec-5-5503-raro-age-10)
  - [Dec-8-5503](#dec-8-5503)
  - [Dec-9-5503 (Oyys Returns)](#dec-9-5503-oyys-returns)
  - [Dec-11-5503 (Nails Joins)](#dec-11-5503-nails-joins)
  - [Dec-14-5503 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)](#dec-14-5503-raid-trumkariss-pact)
- [5504](#5504)
  - [Apr-3-5504 (Bascu Pregnant)](#apr-3-5504-bascu-pregnant)
  - [Apr-7-5504 (Schnook Adulthood)](#apr-7-5504-schnook-adulthood)
  - [Apr-8-5504 (Hamad Joins)](#apr-8-5504-hamad-joins)
  - [Apr-9-5504 (Lothen vs Inmeoum Covenant)](#apr-9-5504-lothen-vs-inmeoum-covenant)
  - [Jul-8-5504 (Sazabor Birth)](#jul-8-5504-sazabor-birth)
  - [Jul-11-5504 (Slaver Raid, Svenke's Clan)](#jul-11-5504-slaver-raid-svenkes-clan)
  - [Jul-13-5504 (Nails, Age 7)](#jul-13-5504-nails-age-7)
  - [Jul-15-5504 (Naque, Age 7)](#jul-15-5504-naque-age-7)
  - [Sep-8-5504 (Raro, Age 13)](#sep-8-5504-raro-age-13)
  - [Sep-9-5504 (Volcanic Winter for Pay)](#sep-9-5504-volcanic-winter-for-pay)
  - [Sep-14-5504](#sep-14-5504)
  - [Dec-4-5504 (Smithing Research)](#dec-4-5504-smithing-research)
  - [Dec-8-5504](#dec-8-5504)
  - [Dec-13 (Big Dipper, Age 11 Phoenix Owlcat)](#dec-13-big-dipper-age-11-phoenix-owlcat)
- [5505](#5505)
  - [Apr-2-5505 (Big Dipper Dies)](#apr-2-5505-big-dipper-dies)
  - [Apr-6-5505 (Bascu Pregancy)](#apr-6-5505-bascu-pregancy)
  - [Apr-8-5505 (Goblin, Pet Animus Vox, Dies)](#apr-8-5505-goblin-pet-animus-vox-dies)
  - [Apr-11-5505 (Sprayberry Falls to Lothen)](#apr-11-5505-sprayberry-falls-to-lothen)
  - [Apr-12-5505 (Gray Psycaster)](#apr-12-5505-gray-psycaster)
  - [Apr-13-5505 (Nails, Age 10)](#apr-13-5505-nails-age-10)
  - [Apr-15-5505 (Naque, Age 10)](#apr-15-5505-naque-age-10)
  - [Jul-6-5505 (Kodo Citadel Falls)](#jul-6-5505-kodo-citadel-falls)
  - [Jul-11-5505 (Finch Birth)](#jul-11-5505-finch-birth)
  - [Sep-5-5505 (Raid, Pact of Pwaga-Oink)](#sep-5-5505-raid-pact-of-pwaga-oink)
  - [Sep-9-5505 (Empire Request)](#sep-9-5505-empire-request)
  - [Dec-8-5504 (Primeval Jubilee Census)](#dec-8-5504-primeval-jubilee-census)
- [5506](#5506)
  - [Apr-1-5506 (Nails Adulthood)](#apr-1-5506-nails-adulthood)
  - [Apr-3-5506 (Naque Adulthood)](#apr-3-5506-naque-adulthood)
  - [Apr-5-5506 (Plague)](#apr-5-5506-plague)
  - [Apr-8-5506 (Sazabor, Age 7)](#apr-8-5506-sazabor-age-7)
  - [Apr-11-5506 (Finch, Age 3)](#apr-11-5506-finch-age-3)
  - [Jul-2-5506 (Long Night, Purple Event)](#jul-2-5506-long-night-purple-event)
  - [Jul-4-5506 (Forced Rainy Thunderstorm)](#jul-4-5506-forced-rainy-thunderstorm)
  - [Jul-9-5506 (Bascu Pregnant)](#jul-9-5506-bascu-pregnant)
  - [Sep-14-5506 (Sparrow Born)](#sep-14-5506-sparrow-born)
  - [Dec-1-5506 (Raid, Toxin Faction)](#dec-1-5506-raid-toxin-faction)
  - [Dec-8-5506](#dec-8-5506)
- [5507](#5507)
  - [Apr-8-5507 (Caravan, Blue Stone Settlement)](#apr-8-5507-caravan-blue-stone-settlement)
  - [Apr-11-5507](#apr-11-5507)
  - [Jul-1-5507 (Raid, The Cannons)](#jul-1-5507-raid-the-cannons)
  - [Jul-12-5507 (Flu)](#jul-12-5507-flu)
  - [Jul-14-5507 (Sparrow, Age 3)](#jul-14-5507-sparrow-age-3)
  - [Sep-11-5507 (Sazabor Adulthood)](#sep-11-5507-sazabor-adulthood)
  - [Dec-2-5507 (Long Night Ends)](#dec-2-5507-long-night-ends)
  - [Dec-5-5507 (Raid, Towasia Empire)](#dec-5-5507-raid-towasia-empire)
  - [Dec-6-5507 (Bascu Pregnant)](#dec-6-5507-bascu-pregnant)
  - [Dec-8-5507 (2nd Reformation)](#dec-8-5507-2nd-reformation)
  - [Dec-11-5507 (Finch, Age 10)](#dec-11-5507-finch-age-10)
  - [Dec-12-5507 (Svenke's Pillage Raid)](#dec-12-5507-svenkes-pillage-raid)
- [5508](#5508)
  - [Apr-8-5508 (Raid, Pact of Pwaga-Oink)](#apr-8-5508-raid-pact-of-pwaga-oink)
  - [Apr-10-5508](#apr-10-5508)
  - [Apr-12-5508 (Medieval Technology Tier)](#apr-12-5508-medieval-technology-tier)
  - [Jul-3-5508](#jul-3-5508)
  - [Jul-5-5508](#jul-5-5508)

# 5500

## Apr-2 Start

- Gray Zagacorro (M40): Undergrounder, careful shooter, groundbreaker but incapable of caring.  Burning passion for cooking.  Normal passions for construction, mining, crafting.  Dislikes Mink and Blue.
- Canga Laguazami (F37): Tough and Ascetic traits.  Burning passion for intellectual, regular passions for shooting and mining.  Could be the eventual queen due to ascetic.
- Blue Treas (M13): Has the groundbreaker trait.  Passions for mining and plants, but not much skill.
- Dabami Alligator (M56): Has the jogger trait. Burning passions for mining and crafting.  
- Bascu Canpebiacur (F28): Has the careful shooter trait and is incapable of animals.  Burning passions for art and medical. Normal passions for social and mining.
- Asgu Mink (M34): Undergrounder, fast learner, ascetic.  Burning passions for social, intellectual and mining.  Normal passions for construction and crafting.  Could be the eventual king due to ascetic.

The day ends with at least a few sandstone pots created, everyone wearing warm clothing and the start of the longhouse.  The plan calls for (8) 4x6 bedrooms off of a 3-tile wide hallway.  A medical room with 8 beds and a barracks with 16 beds.  There should be enough misc space in the east-west hallway for storage and the north-south hallways will be for workstations.  We'll lose more supplies overnight as we only have two construction workers.  The pet koala already got killed by the local wildlife.

## Apr-3 (Plague)

Two of our colonists have the plague.  Bascu and Canga.  Canga fails to beat it and dies.

## Apr-5 (Canga Dies)

Wine merchant from Bonlia Kingdom is visiting.

Bascu picks up the Kind trait from his illness.  Canga is way behind on beating the plague and will probably not survive.  Mink is now digging a grave.  Canga passes from the plague at dusk.

## Apr-6 (Colmea Founded)

Our village is now named Colmea and we are the Scorpion Tribe.  Will probably make Mink the ideology leader (High Chief) and Bascu the moral guide (Medicine Man).

## Apr-10 (Raid, Burglar Monsters)

Single pawn raid by Burglar Monsters.  

## Apr-13 (Gray's Wife)

A war merchant from Western Republic is approaching.  His wife, Maximiliana Ahenobarbus (F33) is one of the guards for the caravan.  

## Apr-14 (Roles Change)

- Mink the ideology leader (High Chief) 
- Bascu the moral guide (Medicine Man)

The outer fence line is almost complete.

Rescued an animus vox (F5) named Goblin.  These are small canines with the psionic ability to spread happiness.

## Jul-1

War merchant from Noco Coalition.

## Jul-2

A wine merchant from Funeamebium Kingdom is approaching.

## Jul-5

A wine merchant from Empire of Goum. 

## Jul-7 (Raid, White Mesa Settlement)

Two pawn raid from the White Mesa Settlement.  Both equipped with shotguns.

## Jul-10

Combat supplier from Northwest Thijalium.  We were able to purchase a good quality service rifle (31 range, 10 dmg) from them for Blue to use.

Art patron from Bonila Kingdom.

## Jul-11

Bulk goods trader from The Green Tarpit Settlement.

## Jul-12

War merchant from Alarik's Clan.

## Jul-14

War merchant from The Red Hyena Meacar.

Bulk goods trader from Eastern Republic.

## Sep-2

Going into winter with about 50 days of food for five people.  The outer fence line is now a double fence line.  We have our first granite pillbox constructed.  

## Sep-4 (Gray/Bascu Lovers)

Gray (M40) and Bascu (F29) are now lovers.

## Sep-9 (Gray/Bascu Engagement)

Gray and Bascu are now engaged.

## Sep-11 (Pillage Raid, Svenke's Clan)

Pillagers from Svenke's Clan are attacking.

## Dec-2 (Slaver Raid, Svenke's Clan)

Slaver raid from Svenke's Clan.

## Dec-7 (Neighbors)

Looking at the map, we are very isolated which is why we hardly ever see traders.  Our nearest friendly neighbors are 9-10 days (one-way) away during the summer and about 25-30 days during winter.  We'll need to use Roads of the Rim (RotR) mod to build some dirt/stone roads out towards those settlements.

- Sprayberry, The White Forest Settlement (ENE, 9.5 days, purple sheriff star icon).
- Kodo Citadel, The Empire of Guom (E, 9.5 days, cyan castle tower icon), but past some polluted areas.
- Dancer's River, The White Forest Settlement (E, 12.5 days, purple sheriff star icon)
- Hope's Mountain, Hatistia Coalition (NW, 24.5 days, purple house icon)

Possible trade items (things we have an excess amount of or could make):

- Cloth Winter Socks ($52/0.05kg = $1040/kg)
- Heavy Fur Mittens ($112/0.15kg = $746/kg)
- Cloth ($1.49/0.03kg = $49.7/kg)
- Heavy Fur ($2.93/0.03kg = $97.7/kg)
- Smoked Vegetables ($3.66/0.02kg = $183/kg)
- Mushroom ($2.14/0.05kg = $42.8/kg)

Looking at the map, a lot of factions only have a single outpost.  And I think two of the three "republics" have lost theirs.

## Dec-8 

Primeval Jubilee opportunity started in the morning.

## Dec-9

We're going to send Dabami away to serve The White Empire (shattered empire) for 11 days.

## Dec-13 (Raid, White Mesa Settlement)

Raiders from The White Mesa Settlement are attacking.  The "Raids Go Wrong" mod fired and they were attacked by half a dozen swarmlings.  Now the raiders are dead, but we have to kill the swarmlings.

# 5501

## Apr-2 (Bascu Pregnancy)

Bascu (F29) is pregnant.

## Apr-5 (Dabami Returns)

Dabami returns along with (3) doses of aperitif.  Those are useful for gut worms and food poisoning incidents to reset the colonist's digestion.

## Apr-6

The Empire of Goum has expanded from the Kodo Citadel to a second location to the southeast named Mosquito's Stronghold-by-the-Prairie.  That's a bit further away from us, but does give the Empire of Guom a second location.

## Apr-7 (Bascu/Gray Marriage)

Bascu and Gray are getting married today.

## Jul-5 (Raro Birth, Plague)

Bascu gave birth after about 7 hours of labor.  A baby boy named Raro.

Three of our colonists have caught the plague: Dabami, Gray, Mink.  Dabami (M58) doesn't look like he's going to get ahead of it before it kills him.

## Jul-7 (Dabami's Death)

Dabami succumbed to the plague.  We had a good quality ancient mourning the following day.

## Jul-9

Mink gained the fun-loving trait due to fighting off the deadly illness.

## Jul-12

A drifter named Kamira (M15) wants to stay with us for 18 days.  He has the pessimist and hard worker traits.  No useful skills or passions.  We'll put him to work doing cleaning and hauling.

## Sep-1 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)

A raider from Trum'Kariss Pact is attacking.

## Sep-15 (Kamira Leaves)

Kamira leaves.

## Dec-8 

Primeval Jubilee.

# 5502

## Apr-5 (Raro, Age 3)

Raro has attained the age of three.

## Apr-8 (Raid, Loreilue Tribe)

Three tribals from Loreilue Tribe are attacking.

## Jul-10 (Bascu Pregnancy)

Bascu (F30) is pregnant again with Gray's (M42) child.  Given that Bascu is our only doctor, this is going to be a high risk delivery.

## Sep-10 (Raid, Burglar Monsters)

Four melee raiders from The Burglar Monsters are attacking.  Looks like "Sometimes Raids Go Wrong" (SRGW) fired some mechs (3x Militor) have spawned in.

## Sep-15 (Naque Birth)

Bascu gave birth to a healthy baby boy named Naque.

## Dec-3 (Oyys Joins)

A gwennin named Oyys (F40) wants to join.  She is incapable of caring, intellectual or artistic.  She refuses to butcher animals and wants to be bonded to a pet.  She has the body purist, gourmand, animal lover and kind traits.  A burning passion in animals and regular passions for social, melee and shooting.  Will probably just have her haul and clean around the core.

## Dec-7 (Oyys Conversion)

I added the "T's Conversion Staff" mod and have been equipping a Conversion Rod whenever I try to convert a friendly pawn.  It boosts the change of certainty by 100%.  So it only took one conversion attempt and one conversion ritual to convert Oyys to our ideology.  

The pack of manhunter Crystalline Caracals (heavily modified wildcat) have arrived due to Oyys.

## Dec-8 (1st Reformation)

Primeval Jubilee.  We gained enough points to have our first reformation. We'll pickup the Collectivist meme to go with Emancipation.  We'll add a Symbol Burning party and the Immunity:Enhanced precept.

## Dec-10 (Schnook Joins)

An 8-year old baseliner child named Schnook wants to join us.  They are trigger-happy with a passion for animals.

# 5503

## Apr-3-5503

Pact of Erdio defeats Gun Robbers at Allworth.  This multicultural union faction now has three outposts on a semi-isolated island near the south pole.  They are neutral to us, with a natural goodwill of -10 due to our ideology memes conflicting (individualist vs collectivist).  They look like one of the larger factions on the map, most factions have single outposts.

Schnook has been converted to our ideology by Bascu.

## Apr-4-5503 (Raro Age 7)

Raro has reached age 7 and picks up a passion for plants and the psychopath trait.

## Apr-13-5503 (Plague)

Plague has struck both Schnook (M9) and Naque (M1).  They should both easily beat it due to the Immunity:Enhanced precept added at the end of last year.

## Jul-1-5503 (Cold Snap)

Got a cold snap which killed off a handful of plants.  It barely got down to -10C and it could have been far worse.  But we'll lose more of the crops over the next few nights.

## Jul-2-5503 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)

Five saurids from Trum'Kariss Pact are attacking and a few have ranged weapons.

## Jul-5-5503 (Schnook Age 10)

Schnook has reached age 10 and picks up the plants passion.  But he also picks up the wimp trait.

We're going to let the empire test a volcanic winter for 8 days in exchange for goodwill.

## Jul-6-5503 (Royal Tribute Collector)

The Royal Tribute Collector from The White Empire has arrived.  Going to start in on making Mink a noble.

## Jul-15-5503 (Naque, Age 3)

Naque has reached age 3.

## Sep-1-5503 (Marina, Female Labrador Retriever)

A female labrador retriever named Marina has joined.  She is age 6.

## Sep-8-5503 (Guard Pet Quest)

We've accepted a quest from the empire to guard a pet elk.  We will be attacked with a double-strength raid by Choke Trash (Wasters) sometime in the next few days.  There will about 13 attackers with ranged modern weapons.  We do get a single empire pawn to control for the duration.

In addition an imperial ship is crashing on our map and we'll have to defend the surviving crew from attackers.  A little annoying that it crashed in the middle of our farm fields.  But that's a blessing as it's inside the walled perimeter.  Besides that, it's winter and there are no plants being grown.

## Sep-11-5503 (Oyys Loaned Out)

Oyys has been loaned out for 13 days in exchange for +31 goodwill with the empire.  That gets us up to allied, which means they will potentially drop reinforcements when that large raid arrives.

## Sep-13-5503 (Pilstl Joins)

A rescued shuttle crash survivor named Pilstl (F28) has joined us.  She has the brawler and insomniac traits and is incapable of social.  Passions in melee, animals and artistic.

## Sep-15-5503 (Plague)

Blue and Pilstl have caught the plague.

## Dec-2-5503 (Pilstl Dies)

Pilstl dies to the plague.  Blue gains the steadfast trait from fighting off the illness.

## Dec-3-5503 (Choke Trash Raid)

The Choke Trash raid has arrived.  We picked up a normal quality hunting rifle and bolt action rifle.

## Dec-5-5503 (Raro, Age 10)

Raro reaches age 10 and picks up the thick-skinned trait.  Plus passions for intellectual and animals.  

## Dec-8-5503

Primeval Jubilee.  It was high enough quality to attract visitors from Green Tarpit Settlement.  But Kona Dyansty is raiding us right after they showed up.

One of the visitors is willing to trade, so we're going to gift them a ton of stuff to get up to allied if possible.  We had to dig deep to get to +88 goodwill for the gift, but now we are allied with Green Tarpit Settlement.

## Dec-9-5503 (Oyys Returns)

Oyys is back, along with a gift of some aperitif.

## Dec-11-5503 (Nails Joins)

A four year old child named Nails wants to join.  They are a baseliner with no traits or health issues.  

## Dec-14-5503 (Raid, Trum'Kariss Pact)

A pair of saurids from Trum'Kariss Pact are attacking.  The empire cataphract might make it off the map before they intercept her.  Yep, they did.  And she killed them.

Quickly followed by a six person pillager raid by Svenke's Clan.

# 5504

## Apr-3-5504 (Bascu Pregnant)

Bascu (F32) is pregnant again with Gray's (M44) child.

## Apr-7-5504 (Schnook Adulthood)

Schnook has reached age 13.  He's picking up the cold inclined trait and passions in medical, social and intellectual.

## Apr-8-5504 (Hamad Joins)

An age 13 survivor of a shuttle crash named Hamad has joined.  He has a passion for plants and nothing else.  But he has the undergrounder trait.

## Apr-9-5504 (Lothen vs Inmeoum Covenant)

Lothen (-80) are attacking Inmeoum Covenant's (-90) base at Theness.  I'm ambivalent about who wins but I'm betting on the defenders.  Lothen is neolithic/medieval tech while IC is bringing modern/advanced weapons.  Ah, IC actually lost because they closed within melee range.

## Jul-8-5504 (Sazabor Birth)

Bascu gave birth to Sazabor (male) today.

## Jul-11-5504 (Slaver Raid, Svenke's Clan)

Svenke's Clan slavers are attacking.

## Jul-13-5504 (Nails, Age 7)

Nails has reached the age of 7.  He is picking up the tough trait and a passion in construction.

## Jul-15-5504 (Naque, Age 7)

Naque has reached age 7.  He is picking up the fun-loving trait and a passion for intellectual.

## Sep-8-5504 (Raro, Age 13)

Raro has become an adult.  He is picking up a burning passion for plants and passions for cooking and crafting.  His new trait will be fast-learning, to go with his psychopath and thick skinned traits. He'll also join Bascu and Mink with meditating at our anima tree.

## Sep-9-5504 (Volcanic Winter for Pay)

The empire is offering us 18 days of volanic winter in exchange for a psylink neuroformer.  I'm going to have Bascu use it and then have her unlock the protector tree with the goal to regrow limbs.

## Sep-14-5504 

We're going to give Bascu her 2nd psylink level via the anima tree link ritual.

## Dec-4-5504 (Smithing Research)

Finally starting to get regular action at the tribal research spots.  That was the second of about 35 technologies that we need to research to enter the medieval technology tier.

## Dec-8-5504

Primeval Jubilee. It was high enough quality to attract visitors from Hatistia Coalition.  We gifted them enough for +53 goodwill.

The anima tree has 20 grass already (we got back 8 when Bascu leveled up).  I should start in on Mink.

Basic furniture reseearch completed.  Getting two to four pawns at a time at the research area.

## Dec-13 (Big Dipper, Age 11 Phoenix Owlcat)

Big Dipper is reaching old age.  His rear right leg has natural degredation (major) due to old age.

# 5505

## Apr-2-5505 (Big Dipper Dies)

Big Dipper died from old age, but because he's a phoenix owlcat he lives again.  Seven lives left.  Unfortunately his age doesn't reset so old age will probably take him again soon.

## Apr-6-5505 (Bascu Pregancy)

Bascu (F33) is pregnant again with Gray's (M45) child.  This will be Bascu's 4th pregnancy.

Mink has linked to the anima tree.  His first psycast will be word of joy.  Bascu has word of healing and word of immunity.

## Apr-8-5505 (Goblin, Pet Animus Vox, Dies)

Goblin, our pet animus vox died today from old age.  We held a funeral.

Sabazor hits age 3 and becomes a child.

Tingshiuan Speent (M52) has joined us after being rescued from a shuttle crash.  He has the fisherman trait, passions for shooting, melee and art.  He has a burning passion for animals.

## Apr-11-5505 (Sprayberry Falls to Lothen)

Sprayberry, The White Forest Settlement (ENE, 9.5 days, purple sheriff star icon) near us has fallen to Lothen (hostile faction) and is now named Gother.  Lothen now has four settlements around us.

## Apr-12-5505 (Gray Psycaster)

Gray is gaining his first psycaster level.  We're going to put him down the technomancer tree for haywire, steel construct and word of progress.

## Apr-13-5505 (Nails, Age 10)

Nails has reached age 10.  He's picking up a passion for medical and a burning passion for construction.  For his next trait he gets no trait.

## Apr-15-5505 (Naque, Age 10)

Naque has reached age 10.  He's picking up the academian trait.  And passions in crafting and shooting.

## Jul-6-5505 (Kodo Citadel Falls)

Kodo Citadel for Empire of Guom has fallen to Lothen.  They were our closest neighbor besides Sprayberry.  Lothen has named the new settlement, Beig.

Raro gets his first psycaster level.  He's going down the conflagrator tree first.

## Jul-11-5505 (Finch Birth)

Bascu enters labor.  She almost gave birth in the rice paddy as she decided to haul the freshly harvested rice before going to the hospital bed.  A daughter named Finch is born healthy.

## Sep-5-5505 (Raid, Pact of Pwaga-Oink)

Five pigskin humans from Pact of Pwaga-Oink are attacking.  The "Sometimes Raids go Wrong" mod also spawned in some manhunting mantrap plants and the two parties are fighting.

## Sep-9-5505 (Empire Request)

We've agreed to the empire's request that we draw the ire of three tribal raids in exchange for +24 goodwill.  Two of the raids were back to back within the span of a few hours.  Including a fire caster and ice caster pair of psychics.

## Dec-8-5504 (Primeval Jubilee Census)

Primeval Jubilee. Terrible, everyone gets -3 mood for six days.

| Name                 | S/A | Traits                                           | Key Skills                                 |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |  
| Blue                 | M22 | Mining, Plants                                   | Groundbreaker, Steadfast                   |
| Schnook              | M17 | Construction, Plants                             | Trigger-happy, Wimp, Cold-Inclined         |
| Ting                 | M53 | Shooting, Animals                                | Fisherman                                  |
| Oyys                 | F44 | Gourmond, Body purist, Animal lover, Kind        | Animals, Social                            |
| Hamad                | M17 | Undergrounder                                    | Plants, Intellectual                       |
| Mink (High Chief)    | M40 | Undergrounder, Ascetic, Fast learner, Fun-loving | Construction, Mining, Social, Intellectual |
| Raro                 | M16 | Psychopath, Thickskinned, Fast learner           | Cooking, Plants, Intellectual              |
| Gray                 | M45 | Undegrounder, Groundbreaker, Careful shooter     | Construction, Cooking                      |
| Bascu (Medicine Man) | F34 | Careful shoter, Kind                             | Artistic, Medical                          |
| Nails                | M12 | Tough                                            | Construction, Medical                      |
| Naque                | M12 | Fun-loving, Academian                            | Shooting, Crafting                         |
| Sazabor              | M6  |                                                  |                                            |
| Finch                | F1  |                                                  |                                            |

Notes:
- We have (5) spare beds in the barracks.
- Mink, Raro, Gray and Bascu our the current psycasters.  Naque will get his first level at age 13 (probably the frost caster tree).
- Hamad is our nearly full-time researcher.  Gray keeps infusing him with Word of Progress (the Smartbuzz effect).
- The new cooking area is coming together.  Butcher room, corpse storage, main kitchen and a large freezer area.

# 5506

## Apr-1-5506 (Nails Adulthood)

Nails has become an adult.  He's going to gain a burning passion for medical and cooking / artistic.  He's picking up the neat trait.

## Apr-3-5506 (Naque Adulthood)

Naque reaches age 13.  He picks up a burning passion for shooting and intellectual and a normal passion for social.  He's picking up the fisherman trait.  When the anima tree is ready, he'll start down the empath psycaster tree.  This will give another source of positive male/female drone to counteract enemy psychic drones.

## Apr-5-5506 (Plague)

Plague strikes: Blue, Finch, Schnook and Noque.

The ability of Bascu to cast a pair of Word of Immunity at the start is important.  It gives +180% immunity speed and lasts for about two days.  Plus she can cast "Preach Health" for a smaller +25% speed gain for about a day.

Blue gains the tortured artist trait (a permanent -8 mood).  

## Apr-8-5506 (Sazabor, Age 7)

Sazabor reaches age 7 and picks up the sanguine trait (+12 mood).  He also picks up a passion for medicine.

Schnook picks up the dog person trait.

## Apr-11-5506 (Finch, Age 3)

Finch reached age 3.

## Jul-2-5506 (Long Night, Purple Event)

A purple event has fired called "Long Night".  That means trouble for us.  We'll be living off of mushrooms unless we go hunting.  Or unless we move.  

## Jul-4-5506 (Forced Rainy Thunderstorm)

May as well pile on a forced rainy thunderstorm for 13 days in exchange for a small vanometric power cell.  It produces 450W compared to the larger cell that produces 1000W.

## Jul-9-5506 (Bascu Pregnant)

Bascu (F34) is pregnant again with their 5th child.

## Sep-14-5506 (Sparrow Born)

Bascu gives birth to a female named Sparrow.

## Dec-1-5506 (Raid, Toxin Faction)

Toxin Faction is attacking, but a mech scorcher and pikeman also spawned in.

## Dec-8-5506

Sazabor is age 10 and picks up the careful shooter trait.  He's also picking up passions for cooking and crafting.

We skipped the Primeval Jubilee.

# 5507

## Apr-8-5507 (Caravan, Blue Stone Settlement)

A combat supplier from Blue Stone Settlement.

We now have 482 + 160 + 72 + 88 + 96 + 72 + 120 tiles filled with mushrooms.  Under optimal conditions they take 4.75 days to grow, produce 5 mushrooms at 0.05 nutrition per mushroom.  We'll call that 15 days to grow so each tile produces 0.25/15d or 0.016/day.  We have 1390 tiles running which is 22 nutrition per day.  That's barely enough to feed 11 pawns.  We have 14 pawns.  That means a slow starvation unless we can hunt enough animals to make up the shortfall.  We have another steam vent with 262 tiles coming online which will add another 2 pawns worth of support.

That means mushrooms are about 125 tiles per pawn at the upper end.  Very labor intensive.  I'm pretty sure that's a pessimistic estimate on the number of mushrooms needed.

## Apr-11-5507

Finch reaches age 7 and she is picking up the hard worker trait and a passion for plants.

## Jul-1-5507 (Raid, The Cannons)

Five melee pawns from the Cannons are attacking.

## Jul-12-5507 (Flu)

Flu has struck Bascu, Raro, Nails, Hamad, Oyys, Ting, Schnook.  Oyys develops the mountain lover trait.

## Jul-14-5507 (Sparrow, Age 3)

Sparrow has become a child.

## Sep-11-5507 (Sazabor Adulthood)

Sazabor has reached adulthood.  He gains the useful jogger trait and a passion for intellectual pursuits.

## Dec-2-5507 (Long Night Ends)

The long night event has finally ended.  We're out of herbal medicine, but doing okay on wood and mushrooms and meals.  My experiment with the armillarix mushroom was a failure as a colonist always comes to harvest it as soon as it is full grown.  Even if you forbid harvesting on the plot.  I'm guessing there's some issue with the "Smart Farming" mod.

Sazabor is going to follow in his mother's footsteps and learn the protector psycast tree.

## Dec-5-5507 (Raid, Towasia Empire)

Attackers from Towasia Empire have arrived.  

## Dec-6-5507 (Bascu Pregnant)

Bascu (F36) is pregnant with Gray's (M47) child.  This is her sixth pregnancy.

## Dec-8-5507 (2nd Reformation)

Primeval Jubilee.  It was unforgettable and we get our next reformation. Sharpshooter is a good meme to pickup, even with the unhappy thoughts from engaging in melee combat.  The increased range on weapons is really useful.  We'll also add "Shotslinger" as our shooting specialist role.  

## Dec-11-5507 (Finch, Age 10)

Finch has reached the age of ten and picks up the optimist trait.  She also gains a burning passion in plants.

## Dec-12-5507 (Svenke's Pillage Raid)

Svenke's crew is here to pillage.

# 5508

## Apr-8-5508 (Raid, Pact of Pwaga-Oink)

Five pigskin humans from Pact of Pwaga-Oink are attacking.

## Apr-10-5508

Bascu starts labor at noon.  She gives birth to a healthy baby girl named Robin.

## Apr-12-5508 (Medieval Technology Tier)

We've unlocked the medieval technology tier.  There are still five more neolithic technologies that I want to research, then I can go into basic work benches and stone cutting to start on our megaliths.  For the cornerstone point we'll take Cult of Inner Strength (mental break threshold decreased by 5%).

Shaman merchant from Noco Coalition.  Followed by an armorsmith from Funeamebium Kingdom.

## Jul-3-5508

Bulk goods trader from Central Republic.

## Jul-5-5508

Exotic goods trader from White Forest Settlement.









































