# Lloasba Tribe

- [Lloasba Tribe](#lloasba-tribe)
- [Starting Pawns](#starting-pawns)
- [5500](#5500)
  - [Apr-1-5500](#apr-1-5500)
  - [Apr-3-5500 (Raid, Virus Crew)](#apr-3-5500-raid-virus-crew)
  - [Apr-11-5500 (Caravans Start Arriving)](#apr-11-5500-caravans-start-arriving)
  - [Apr-15-5500 (Senga, Medicine Man)](#apr-15-5500-senga-medicine-man)
  - [Jul-5500 (Caravans)](#jul-5500-caravans)
  - [Jul-3-5500 (Sylvie and Hornet as doctors)](#jul-3-5500-sylvie-and-hornet-as-doctors)
  - [Jul-9-5500 (Miah Joins)](#jul-9-5500-miah-joins)
  - [Jul-12-5500 (Raid, Pigmoili)](#jul-12-5500-raid-pigmoili)
  - [Jul-13-5500 (Raid, Southwest Seeremebum, Psycaster)](#jul-13-5500-raid-southwest-seeremebum-psycaster)
  - [Jul-15-5500 (Senga Loaned Out)](#jul-15-5500-senga-loaned-out)
  - [Sep-1-5500 (Elm Joins)](#sep-1-5500-elm-joins)
  - [Sep-15-5500 (Raid, White Crag Bandits)](#sep-15-5500-raid-white-crag-bandits)
  - [Dec-1-5500 (Violence Quest)](#dec-1-5500-violence-quest)
  - [Dec-3-5500 (Miah/Elm Lovers)](#dec-3-5500-miahelm-lovers)
  - [Dec-6-5500 (Green Anima Tree)](#dec-6-5500-green-anima-tree)
  - [Dec-7-5500 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-7-5500-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Dec-10-5500 (Raid, Raareentium)](#dec-10-5500-raid-raareentium)
  - [Dec-14-5500 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)](#dec-14-5500-raid-gray-owl-clan)
- [5501](#5501)
  - [Apr-1-5501](#apr-1-5501)
  - [Apr-4-5501 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)](#apr-4-5501-raid-purple-sound-settlement)
  - [Apr-5-5501 (Six psycasters)](#apr-5-5501-six-psycasters)
  - [Apr-6-5501 (Yuu's Sad Travelers)](#apr-6-5501-yuus-sad-travelers)
  - [Apr-12-5501 (Raid, Virus Crew)](#apr-12-5501-raid-virus-crew)
  - [Apr-14-5501 (Travelers Leave)](#apr-14-5501-travelers-leave)
  - [Jul-4-5501 (Miah/Elm Engagement)](#jul-4-5501-miahelm-engagement)
  - [Jul-12-5501 (Raid, Raareentium)](#jul-12-5501-raid-raareentium)
  - [Jul-14-5501 (Sylvie/Red Fight)](#jul-14-5501-sylviered-fight)
  - [Sep-1-5501 (Miah/Elm Marriage)](#sep-1-5501-miahelm-marriage)
  - [Sep-2-5501 (Raid, Hiuia Dynasty)](#sep-2-5501-raid-hiuia-dynasty)
  - [Sep-3-5501 (Raid, Pollution Lineup)](#sep-3-5501-raid-pollution-lineup)
  - [Sep-12-5501 (Sylvie Healed by Hornet)](#sep-12-5501-sylvie-healed-by-hornet)
  - [Dec-2-5501 (Raid, Red Lake People)](#dec-2-5501-raid-red-lake-people)
  - [Dec-7-5501 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-7-5501-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Dec-11-5501 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)](#dec-11-5501-raid-stladio-dynasty)
  - [Dec-15-5501 (Elm Psycaster)](#dec-15-5501-elm-psycaster)
- [5502](#5502)
  - [Apr-7-5502 (Raid, Black Goblins)](#apr-7-5502-raid-black-goblins)
  - [Jul-12 (Khaled Joins)](#jul-12-khaled-joins)
  - [Sep-2-5502 (Raid, White Crag Bandits)](#sep-2-5502-raid-white-crag-bandits)
  - [Sep-15-5502 (Khaled Adulthood)](#sep-15-5502-khaled-adulthood)
  - [Dec-2-5502 (Raid, Raareentium)](#dec-2-5502-raid-raareentium)
  - [Dec-7-5502 (Primeval Jubilee, 1st Reformation)](#dec-7-5502-primeval-jubilee-1st-reformation)
- [5503](#5503)
  - [Apr-3-5503 (Purple Event, Psychic Bloom)](#apr-3-5503-purple-event-psychic-bloom)
  - [Jul-2-5503 (Sapling Child)](#jul-2-5503-sapling-child)
  - [Jul-2-5503 (Raid, Raareentium)](#jul-2-5503-raid-raareentium)
  - [Jul-4-5503 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks)](#jul-4-5503-raid-nicoles-tomahawks)
  - [Jul-15-5503 (Katten Joins)](#jul-15-5503-katten-joins)
  - [Sep-8-5503 (Katten/Miah Affair)](#sep-8-5503-kattenmiah-affair)
  - [Sep-13-5503](#sep-13-5503)
  - [Sep-15-5503 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)](#sep-15-5503-raid-purple-sound-settlement)
  - [Dec-2-5503 (Royal Tribue Collector)](#dec-2-5503-royal-tribue-collector)
  - [Dec-6-5503 (Khalid Diplomatic Marriage)](#dec-6-5503-khalid-diplomatic-marriage)
  - [Dec-7-5503 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-7-5503-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Dec-13-5503 (Katten Death, Katten Birth)](#dec-13-5503-katten-death-katten-birth)
- [5504](#5504)
  - [Apr-9-5504](#apr-9-5504)
  - [Apr-11-5504 (Miah's Mood)](#apr-11-5504-miahs-mood)
  - [Jul-4-5504 (Khai Joins)](#jul-4-5504-khai-joins)
  - [Jul-9-5504 (Raid, Shadow Darts)](#jul-9-5504-raid-shadow-darts)
  - [Jul-11-5504 (Raid, Shadow Darts)](#jul-11-5504-raid-shadow-darts)
  - [Sep-11-5504 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)](#sep-11-5504-raid-stladio-dynasty)
  - [Sep-12-5504 (Katten, Age 3)](#sep-12-5504-katten-age-3)
  - [Dec-4-5504 (Raid, Red Lake People)](#dec-4-5504-raid-red-lake-people)
  - [Dec-5-5504 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)](#dec-5-5504-raid-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Dec-7-5504 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-7-5504-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Dec-10-5504 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)](#dec-10-5504-raid-gray-owl-clan)
- [5505](#5505)
  - [Apr-9-5505 (Khai, Age 7)](#apr-9-5505-khai-age-7)
  - [Apr-13-5505 (Fungoid Ship)](#apr-13-5505-fungoid-ship)
  - [Apr-14-5505](#apr-14-5505)
  - [Jul-8-5505 (Raid, Black Goblins)](#jul-8-5505-raid-black-goblins)
  - [Sep-2-5505 (Refugees)](#sep-2-5505-refugees)
  - [Sep-3-5505 (Raid, Marcancan Nation)](#sep-3-5505-raid-marcancan-nation)
  - [Sep-5-5505 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)](#sep-5-5505-raid-purple-sound-settlement)
  - [Sep-7-5505 (Hyosh Joins)](#sep-7-5505-hyosh-joins)
  - [Sep-10-5505 (Raid, Mil'Lampan Pact)](#sep-10-5505-raid-millampan-pact)
  - [Sep-12-5505 (Katten, Age 7)](#sep-12-5505-katten-age-7)
  - [Sep-13-5505 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks)](#sep-13-5505-raid-nicoles-tomahawks)
  - [Dec-1-5505 (Rock Constructs)](#dec-1-5505-rock-constructs)
  - [Dec-4-5505 (Hyosh, Age 7)](#dec-4-5505-hyosh-age-7)
  - [Dec-7-5505 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-7-5505-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Dec-8-5505 (Raid, Virus Crew)](#dec-8-5505-raid-virus-crew)
  - [Dec-9-5505 (Khai, Age 10)](#dec-9-5505-khai-age-10)
  - [Dec-10-5505 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks, Psycaster)](#dec-10-5505-raid-nicoles-tomahawks-psycaster)
- [5506](#5506)
  - [Apr-6-5506 (Merchant Caravans)](#apr-6-5506-merchant-caravans)
  - [Apr-7-5506 (Pack Animals)](#apr-7-5506-pack-animals)
  - [Apr-12-5506 (More Pack Animals)](#apr-12-5506-more-pack-animals)
  - [Jul-6-5506 (Fungoid Ship)](#jul-6-5506-fungoid-ship)
  - [Jul-7-5506 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)](#jul-7-5506-raid-purple-sound-settlement)
  - [Jul-12-5506 (Katten, Age 10)](#jul-12-5506-katten-age-10)
  - [Sep-2-5506 (Dispatch a Caravan)](#sep-2-5506-dispatch-a-caravan)
  - [Sep-3-5506 (Raid, Shadow Darts)](#sep-3-5506-raid-shadow-darts)
  - [Sep-4-5506 (Hyosh, Age 10)](#sep-4-5506-hyosh-age-10)
  - [Sep-10-5506 (Raid, Southwest Seer)](#sep-10-5506-raid-southwest-seer)
  - [Sep-12-5506 (Caravan Arrival at Devotion's Rock)](#sep-12-5506-caravan-arrival-at-devotions-rock)
  - [Sep-13-5506 (Khai Adulthood)](#sep-13-5506-khai-adulthood)
  - [Dec-1-5506 (Khai Anima Nexus Tree Link)](#dec-1-5506-khai-anima-nexus-tree-link)
  - [Dec-3-5506 (Caravan Ambushed)](#dec-3-5506-caravan-ambushed)
  - [Dec-4-5506 (Caravan Trader)](#dec-4-5506-caravan-trader)
  - [Dec-5-5506 (Caravan Ambushed)](#dec-5-5506-caravan-ambushed)
  - [Dec-7-5506 (Caravan Trade)](#dec-7-5506-caravan-trade)
  - [Dec-9-5506 (Caravan Trade)](#dec-9-5506-caravan-trade)
  - [Dec-10-5506 (Raid, Pollution Lineup)](#dec-10-5506-raid-pollution-lineup)
  - [Dec-12-5506 (Space Battle, Herschel Joins)](#dec-12-5506-space-battle-herschel-joins)
  - [Dec-15-5506 (Primeval Jubilee)](#dec-15-5506-primeval-jubilee)
- [5507](#5507)
  - [Apr-1-5507 (Caravans for 5507)](#apr-1-5507-caravans-for-5507)
  - [Apr-7-5507 (2nd Reformation)](#apr-7-5507-2nd-reformation)
  - [Apr-11-5507 (Zyther's Many Friends)](#apr-11-5507-zythers-many-friends)
  - [Apr-14-5507 (Raid, Zyther's Chasers)](#apr-14-5507-raid-zythers-chasers)
  - [Apr-15-5507 (Katten Adulthood)](#apr-15-5507-katten-adulthood)
  - [Jul-4-5507 (Toxic Fallout Starts)](#jul-4-5507-toxic-fallout-starts)
  - [Jul-5-5507 (Sapling Child)](#jul-5-5507-sapling-child)
  - [Jul-6-5507 (Aiden Joins)](#jul-6-5507-aiden-joins)
  - [Jul-7-5507 (Hyosh Adulthood)](#jul-7-5507-hyosh-adulthood)
  - [Jul-11-5507 (Pillagers, Gray Owl Clan)](#jul-11-5507-pillagers-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Jul-12-5507 (Toxic Fallout Ends)](#jul-12-5507-toxic-fallout-ends)
  - [Sep-1-5507 (Hyena Joins)](#sep-1-5507-hyena-joins)
  - [Sep-10-5507 (Slavers, Gray Owl Clan)](#sep-10-5507-slavers-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Sep-11-5507 (Raid, Nicole's)](#sep-11-5507-raid-nicoles)
  - [Dec-7-5507 (Sapling Baby Hatched)](#dec-7-5507-sapling-baby-hatched)
  - [Dec-10-5507 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)](#dec-10-5507-raid-stladio-dynasty)
- [5508](#5508)
  - [Apr-7-5508 (Primeval Jubilee)](#apr-7-5508-primeval-jubilee)
  - [Apr-11-5508 (Caravan Departs)](#apr-11-5508-caravan-departs)
  - [Apr-12-5508 (Caravan Ambushed)](#apr-12-5508-caravan-ambushed)

# Starting Pawns

| Name                   | S/A | Xenotype  | Traits                                  | Burning Passions      | Normal Passions               |
| ---------------------- | --- | --------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Sylvie 'Sylvie' Colmea | F28 | Baseliner | Industrious, Brave, Prodigy             | Mining, Medical       | Animals, Crafting             |
| Red 'Red' Scarab       | F28 | Baseliner | Great Memory, Quick Sleeper, Wanderlust | Mining, Cooking       | Plants, Crafting              |
| Abere 'Abere' Coyote   | F18 | Baseliner | Super-immune                            | Animals, Intellectual | Construction, Mining, Medical |
| Hornet 'Hornet' Barto  | F27 | Baseliner | Beautiful, No Skilled Labor             | Shooting, Medical     | Melee                         |
| Green 'Green' Turkey   | F28 | Baseliner | Steadfast, No Animals                   | Shooting              | Construction, Plants, Medical |
| Senga 'Senga' Lloasba  | F24 | Baseliner | Ascetic                                 | Artistic, Social      | Animals                       |

# 5500

## Apr-1-5500

The gods were angry.  We've escaped with what we could and have found a cirque to hole up in.

## Apr-3-5500 (Raid, Virus Crew)

A single pawn raid by Virus Crew.


## Apr-11-5500 (Caravans Start Arriving)

Caravans start arriving.

- 11th: Bulk goods trader from Central Republic.

## Apr-15-5500 (Senga, Medicine Man)

Senga becomes the Medicine Man for the tribe.

## Jul-5500 (Caravans)

- 1st: War merchant from Tromsa Confederacy
- 1st: War merchant from Caquexada Kinship
- 3rd: Animal merchant from Andunera
- 4th: Bulk goods trader Treat of Hatveor
- 7th: War merchant from Western Republic
- 8th: Bulk goods trader from Eainor Nation
- 11th: Exotic goods trader from South Itin (6 days west of us)
- 14th: Shaman merchant from Kinship of Legua

## Jul-3-5500 (Sylvie and Hornet as doctors)

Start with Sylvie and Hornet as the primary doctors.  They'll be going down the "Protector" psycast tree for healing abilities.

## Jul-9-5500 (Miah Joins)

Miah (M32) has shown up being chased by manhunting panthers.  He has a mix of traits: quick sleeper, volatile, coward.  The volatile trait was almost a rejection but he has burning passions for mining and plants.  He is incapable of caring duties.

## Jul-12-5500 (Raid, Pigmoili)

Raiders from Pigmoili.  Pair of pigskin xenotypes with short ranged weapons.

## Jul-13-5500 (Raid, Southwest Seeremebum, Psycaster)

Southwest Seeremebum is attacking and one of the three is a psycaster with a biocoded charge LMG.  Five of our colonists are down with various wounds from the LMG.  Hornet is going to be busy as Sylvie is downed and Senga doesn't do doctoring.  

Hornet has linked to the anima tree and casts her first two Word of Healing on Sylvie and Abere.

## Jul-15-5500 (Senga Loaned Out)

Going to loan Senga out to The Purple Empire for 10 days.  This gives her "First of her Name" which increases her standing in the empire.

## Sep-1-5500 (Elm Joins)

Elm (a female poluxkin, age 33) is fleeing from Nicole's Tomahawks and wants refuge.  Poluxkin are immune to pollution and excellent at plants.  She is an anxious academian and zero skills in violence (but not incapable).  Super burning passions for mining and plants.  Burning passion for medical and a skill of 13.  She's already converted to Primitive Creed (our ideology) so no need to convert later.  

## Sep-15-5500 (Raid, White Crag Bandits)

Single pawn raid from White Crag Bandits with a shotgun.

## Dec-1-5500 (Violence Quest)

We agreed to have three raid parties divert to us in exchange for shattered empire rewards.  One of them dropped a normal quality bolt-action rifle for Green with a range of 37 and damage of 18.  Hornet also picks one up from the 3rd raid.

## Dec-3-5500 (Miah/Elm Lovers)

Miah (M32 baseliner) and Elm (F33 poluxkin) are now lovers.

## Dec-6-5500 (Green Anima Tree)

Green has linked to the anima tree and is leveling up in the Technomancer psycast tree.

## Dec-7-5500 (Primeval Jubilee)

This occurs at around 2300 on the 7th, so might frequently happen on the 8th.  Our first one was unimpressive.

## Dec-10-5500 (Raid, Raareentium)

Outlanders from Raareentium are attacking.  The north trio got set upon by a warg, killing one of the three and injuring another.  

## Dec-14-5500 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)

Pillagers from Gray Owl Clan are attacking.  One of them ran off with a corpse, which is always amusing to me.

# 5501

## Apr-1-5501

Abere has also linked to the anima tree and picked up Technomancer.

## Apr-4-5501 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)

A single raider from The Purple Sound Settlement is attacking.

## Apr-5-5501 (Six psycasters)

All of the originals now have psycasting:

- Green: Technomancer
- Abere: Technomancer
- Red: Empath
- Sylvie: Protector
- Hornet: Protector
- Senga: Empath

## Apr-6-5501 (Yuu's Sad Travelers)

Three people, including a child, claim to have escaped a slave caravan and want to stay with us for 9 days.

- Yuu (M34 genie): test subject, escaped convict
- Lion (F56, baseliner): eldest caretaker, barber
- Niko (M10, nizai): requires wake-up to function

## Apr-12-5501 (Raid, Virus Crew)

Virus Crew is attacking, but some mechs followed them so the two groups are fighting on the map edge.

## Apr-14-5501 (Travelers Leave)

Yuu's Sad Travelers left without incident.

## Jul-4-5501 (Miah/Elm Engagement)

Miah and Elm are now engaged to be married.

## Jul-12-5501 (Raid, Raareentium)

Raareentium is attacking with three pawns, two melee and one with a flintlock pistol.  One of them is aged 88 and has frail, bad back and alzheimer's.

## Jul-14-5501 (Sylvie/Red Fight)

Silvie gets into it with Red and Sylvie loses her nose.

## Sep-1-5501 (Miah/Elm Marriage)

Miah/Elm are now married.

## Sep-2-5501 (Raid, Hiuia Dynasty)

Raiders from Hiuia Dynasty.  

## Sep-3-5501 (Raid, Pollution Lineup)

A pair of melee-only enemies from Pollution Lineup.

## Sep-12-5501 (Sylvie Healed by Hornet)

Hornet was able to use the "Regrow Limbs" psycast under the Protector tree to regrow Sylvie's nose.  Sylvie gets knocked out for 24 hours and put into a healing coma.

## Dec-2-5501 (Raid, Red Lake People)

Raid by The Red Lake People.  Looks like a single mech also spawned in.

## Dec-7-5501 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee.  Beautiful this year, but Sylvie and Red got into a fist fight at the end.  We still got visitors from Central Republic to show up.

## Dec-11-5501 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)

Stladio Dynasty is raiding with four pawns.  Followed by the first of two Nicole's Tomahawks raids that we agreed to as a favor to the empire.  One of the NT's party is a psycaster with good armor and a biocoded pulse rifle with range 31. Fortunately, they picked a fight with each other and also made a bear mad who joined in.

The other raiders from Nicole's Tomahawks showed up the next day.  All melee pawns.

## Dec-15-5501 (Elm Psycaster)

Elm has linked to the anima tree and starts the Protector tree for more doctors with healing psycasts.

# 5502

## Apr-7-5502 (Raid, Black Goblins)

Small raid by Black Goblins with shotguns.

Miah gets linked to the anima tree to become a psycaster.  

Slaver from Gray Owl Clan is attacking.

## Jul-12 (Khaled Joins)

Khaled, a 12yo boy, is begging to join us as he is being chased by some threat.  He has the desensitized trait and a burning passion for shooting.  Regular passion for cooking and animals.

Turns out we have to caravan to destroy a nearby sun blocker machine.  It's about a day away, but we'll allow for seven days.  Green, Abere, Hornet and Senga will be going.

## Sep-2-5502 (Raid, White Crag Bandits)

Four attackers from The White Crag Bandits with short-ranged gunpowder weapons.

## Sep-15-5502 (Khaled Adulthood)

Khaled is now age 13.  He picked up a passion for crafting and also the gourmand trait (a mixed blessing).  He immediately gets linked to the anima tree, but converting him to our ideology is going to take a while.  Going to run him down the Wildspeaker psycast tree like with Miah.

## Dec-2-5502 (Raid, Raareentium)

Raareentium is attacking with five pawns.  One has a rolling block rifle which we'll want to get if possible.  The north pair of raiders got beset by a pack of five militor mechanoids.  

## Dec-7-5502 (Primeval Jubilee, 1st Reformation)

Primeval Jubilee. It was "unforgettable" giving us enough points for our first reformation.  We'll pickup the Collectivist meme to go with Emancipation.  We'll add a Symbol Burning party.  Then go for the overpowered Immunity:Enhanced and Psyfocus Gain:Doubled precepts.

# 5503

## Apr-3-5503 (Purple Event, Psychic Bloom)

A psychic bloom has started.

## Jul-2-5503 (Sapling Child)

It turns out that Elm (F35, poluxkin) can still get pregnant by Miah even though they were set to 25% of normal chance.  Now we have a planted sapling child in the main garden area.

## Jul-2-5503 (Raid, Raareentium)

Raareentium is attacking with six pawns.  Longest range weapon is a musket.

## Jul-4-5503 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks)

Nicole's Tomahawks are attacking with three pawns.  One of them has a smoke launcher that we'll want to capture.

## Jul-15-5503 (Katten Joins)

We rescued Katten Wreford (F34, highmate) from a shuttle crash and she has decided to stay with us.  She has brawler and nimble, but is incapable of violence.  She has kind and distressed and the latter disables her bloodlust trait.  She's also incapable of caring duties.  Social is at 17 and a normal passion.  Intellectual is a burning passion.  We're going to call her by her first name of Katten.

Her meditation focus type is artistic.  Not sure we'll be able to turn her into a psycaster using the anima tree, but we'll try.  She was an easy convert to Primitive Creed (our ideology).  But Katten can't hold a conversion staff, so I'm not sure what psycaster tree I'll put her down.

Update: Even after conversion to our ideology, she can't be promoted to a psycaster using the anima tree.  That leaves buying/finding a psylink neuroformer or buttering up the shattered empire for a title.

## Sep-8-5503 (Katten/Miah Affair)

Well, let that be a lesson.  Never bring a highmate into the colony if you don't have multiple possible suitors of the opposite sex.  Katten is now having an affair with Miah and they've already psychically bonded.

And now Katten is pregnant.

## Sep-13-5503

A cold snap killed Elm's planted saplingchild.

## Sep-15-5503 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)

Three raiders from The Purple Sound Settlement are attacking.  At least one of them used a drop pod to arrive in the eastern half of the map.

## Dec-2-5503 (Royal Tribue Collector)

Our first visit by a Royal Tribute Collector.

## Dec-6-5503 (Khalid Diplomatic Marriage)

We're going to boot Khaled out because he's proving impossible to convert to our ideology.  We have a diplomatic marriage proposal from Hiuia Dynasty.

## Dec-7-5503 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee.  

## Dec-13-5503 (Katten Death, Katten Birth)

Katten has gone into labor and Elm has the best doctoring skill to be the attending.  Katten dies! She had such a sudden labor that she never made it to the steel hospital bed.  The baby is a healthy baby girl who we shall name Katten.  It remains to be seen if Miah will go insane from the breaking of the psychic bond.  He already has -10 for 20 days from his friend (Katten) dying, another -18 for 30 days due to her being his best friend and -25 for 30 days due to the psychic bond breaking.  On the other hand he's still married to Elm, so they'll both get the "got some loving" mood on the regular.

Three pawn raid from Red Lake People.  Miah will use "Summon Pack".  

# 5504

## Apr-9-5504

I'm going to give the good-quality Gauss Lance (45rng 40dmg) to Hornet with her burning passion for shooting, level 15 skill and the sharpshooting expertise.  She's one of the main doctors and sticks close to home so the movement penalty of -0.08 should be okay.  It has a really long 3.50s ranged cooldown and aiming time of 5.5s.

Green gets the rolling-block rifle, once she improves it to good-quality (40rng 21dmg).  She also has the sharpshooting expertise and 15 in shooting.

That leaves me with a pair of bolt-action rifles.  Those will be for Abere and Red.

## Apr-11-5504 (Miah's Mood)

Miah's mood starts to drop a bit.  Senga can cast "Counsel" due to her position as the Medicine Man.  That gives +18 for 16 days.  Which offsets one of the negative mood debuffs which ends around 16 days from now.

## Jul-4-5504 (Khai Joins)

A three year old child named Charlotte 'Khai' Denakhai is joining us but is being chased by unknown threats.  She's a baseliner and has no traits, incapabilities or passions.  Young children are usually an automatic approval for joining since they can be easily imprinted into the colony.  Her downside is being artistic for the mediatation type which puts her in the same problem as other pawns where you need a psylink neuroformer or level up with the shattered empire for a title.

(There is a mod that I could install that adds a tree-critter that allows you to eventually craft a psylink neuroformer.)

## Jul-9-5504 (Raid, Shadow Darts)

Two raiders from The Shadow Darts have shown up.  But while I think they are chasing Khai, they are also being chased by a pikeman mech.  Hornet should be able to outrange, but we'll also grab the smoke launcher.

No need for smoke, the two raiders killed the needler.  

## Jul-11-5504 (Raid, Shadow Darts)

Another Shadow Darts raid, this is the group hunting Khai.  It's a larger raid, so Miah is going to summon animals to thin them out.  It's not a fair fight given what was summoned (rhino, dark vandal, timber wolf, plus half a dozen other smaller critters).

## Sep-11-5504 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)

Stladio Dynasty is attacking.  They spawned in next to a pair of pikeman mechs.

## Sep-12-5504 (Katten, Age 3)

Katten has reached age three.

## Dec-4-5504 (Raid, Red Lake People)

The Red Lake People are attacking.  

## Dec-5-5504 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)

A single slaver from Gray Owl Clan is attacking.

## Dec-7-5504 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee.  Sylvia/Senga get into a fist fight.

## Dec-10-5504 (Raid, Gray Owl Clan)

Pillager raid by Gray Owl Clan.  

# 5505

## Apr-9-5505 (Khai, Age 7)

Khai has reached age 7 and picked up the jogger trait and a passion for artistic.

## Apr-13-5505 (Fungoid Ship)

A fungoid ship has landed.

Elm picks up the early bird trait (as a result of a breakdown caused by her anxious trait).

## Apr-14-5505

Sylvie picks up the cat person trait from fighting off the plague.

## Jul-8-5505 (Raid, Black Goblins)

Once again, Miha summons a pack of animals to clear out the raiders from Black Goblins.

## Sep-2-5505 (Refugees)

Six desperate refugees, Aurel and five children want shelter.  He was banished from his town and wants to stay with us for five days.

## Sep-3-5505 (Raid, Marcancan Nation)

Three humans from Marcancan Nation are attacking.

I used an animal pulse to trigger the two wandering thrumbo to attack the raiders, but two of our animals got caught in it.  Justus, our bonobo, had to be put down.  Ruby the lioness has been downed but not killed.  So we might save her.  Aurel got mauled but should live.

## Sep-5-5505 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)

Purple Sound Settlement is back.

## Sep-7-5505 (Hyosh Joins)

Hyosh (M6, gwennin) wants to join us.  He is one of the five children from the refugees quest. The other refugees have chosen to leave.

## Sep-10-5505 (Raid, Mil'Lampan Pact)

Mil'Lampan Pact is attacking with five pawns and they ran into three travelers from Red Cove Settlement.

## Sep-12-5505 (Katten, Age 7)

Katten has reached age 7.  She also picks up the jogger trait.  Passions for shooting, cooking and plants.

## Sep-13-5505 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks)

Four raiders from Nicole's Tomahawks.  

## Dec-1-5505 (Rock Constructs)

We now have six little rock constructs wandering around.  They were constructed by Green and Abere to help with hauling duties.  Each one active uses up 20 heat for the caster for the duration.  The spell is part of the Technomancer psycast path.  Wild or manhunting animals seem to ignore them, so I have them unrestricted to cover the entire map.  This hauling will free up Elm and Abere to focus more on research.

## Dec-4-5505 (Hyosh, Age 7)

Hyosh has reached age 7 and picked up the cat person trait.  But his learning was stunted and he picked up no passions as he was with us for only 15 days before hitting age 7.

## Dec-7-5505 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee. 

## Dec-8-5505 (Raid, Virus Crew)

Five wasters armed with tox grenades.  Summon the pack!

## Dec-9-5505 (Khai, Age 10)

Khai picked up the hard worker trait.  She is also picking up passions for shooting, crafting and construction.

## Dec-10-5505 (Raid, Nicole's Tomahawks, Psycaster)

Five raiders from Nicole's Tomahawks.  Including a level 4 psycaster.  But mechs also spawned in with three scorchers and one pikeman.

# 5506

## Apr-6-5506 (Merchant Caravans)

Hopefully this is the start of a bunch of caravans visiting us.

- Apr 6th: War merchant from Aka's Clan.  Bought (2) female and (2) male megasloth.  Got rid of dozens and dozens of dropped raider weapons and 600 herbal medicine.
- Dec 12th: War merchant from Central Republic.  Green's sister Decimus is a guard.

## Apr-7-5506 (Pack Animals)

Tamed a megalochelys (M15) which is a very large turtle.  It has 338 pack animal capacity and consumes 0.48/day nutrition.  They're only good for temps in the range -35C to +40C.

For the megasloths, I'm going to keep 2 adult male and 2 adult female.  Each consumes 1.6/day nutrition.  They're not suitable for pack animals on caravans.  That makes them mostly useful for food / textiles / leather.  I might ditch them for muffalo later.

## Apr-12-5506 (More Pack Animals)

A pair of male platybelodons have entered the map.  These are elephant like pack animals with 338 carrying capacity but at the cost of 2.48/day nutrition.  They're comfortable at -35C to +40C like the megalochelys.  I'm pretty sure I'll be culling these once I get muffalo.  Assuming they can carry 38kg of kibble and/or silage, that's 2500 units (15g/unit) or 125 nutrition.  So they can carry about 50 days of nutrition while still having plenty of cargo room (158kg capacity).  And if I caravan during the growing season that goes up to about 150-160 days of animal feed.

For humans they consume 1.6/day nutrition, so I need to pack about 80 nutrition per pawn to have 50 days (before foraging).  Given that the pemmican and hard tack will probably expire after 50 days this gives an upper limit on caravan distance.  That's 1600 hard tack at 18g each for a total of about 29kg.  For pemmican (modded) it would be 100 units at 0.29kg/unit which is 29kg.  Smoke meat (1600 units) would be slightly heavier, but not by much.  Humans can usually carry 35kg, so you really need pack animals of some type to carry the trade goods.

A muffalo has 180 carry capacity and needs 0.86 nutrition/day.  They need 43 nutrition for a 50-day journey which is about 1000 kibble compared to the 2500 kibble needed for platybelodons, but the carry capacity is 53% of the larger pack animals.  They're still more efficient for caravans over the platybelodons for carrying capacity per unit of nutrition.  But the megalochelys (turtle) is twice as efficient as muffalo.

Caravan Checklist:

- Food (pemmican, hard tack, smoked meat)
- Medicine (5 per pawn)
- Bed rolls (1 per pawn)

## Jul-6-5506 (Fungoid Ship)

Another fungoid ship.  

## Jul-7-5506 (Raid, Purple Sound Settlement)

Two raiders from Purple Sound.  One has a rolling-block rifle.  Now we have two.

## Jul-12-5506 (Katten, Age 10)

Katten has reached age 10.  She picks up a burning passion for shooting and passions for animals and medical.  Her new trait will be fun-loving.

Going to start thinning the megasloth population.  One adult male and 2 adult females.  For the muffalos, four adult males and four adult females.  We have 1M and 1F adult and the female muffalo is pregnant already.  We might tame a few more before the herd leaves the map.

## Sep-2-5506 (Dispatch a Caravan)

Sending Miah, Senga and Elm off on a caravan with the (2) platybelodons and the megalochelys.  They're heading to Devotion's Rock (Treaty of Hatveor). That is about 9 days away in good weather. Packing 482kg out of 578kg capacity.  Taking every enemy weapon, ripped/tattered clothing, 4000 silver and 3000 heavy fur.  Total is about $55k worth of wealth.  Hopefully we can offload all of that and return with silver, goodwill or slaves (to emancipate). Treaty of Hatveor is a civil xenohuman union.

Downside of the megalochelys is that it takes forever to leave the map from the caravan point.

## Sep-3-5506 (Raid, Shadow Darts)

Five melee only raiders from Shadow Darts.  Oh neat, the raiders will attack the little rock haulers.  So those will make nice distractions.

## Sep-4-5506 (Hyosh, Age 10)

Hyosh reaches age 10.  He picks up the neat trait and a burning passion for social.  Regular passions for shooting and intellectual.

## Sep-10-5506 (Raid, Southwest Seer)

Raiders from Southwest Seer are attacking while we were out hunting with the five remaining adults.  A pack of bedbugs also spawned in (Sometimes Raids go Wrong mod).  That'll keep them busy in the SE corner until we get back to the defensive positions from the NE map corner.

## Sep-12-5506 (Caravan Arrival at Devotion's Rock)

Our traders have arrived at Devotion's Rock.  No slaves for sale here, but I am picking up a telescope for another recreation type.  Other things we'll buy are 165 gold, molotov cocktail weapon, sniper rifle, rolling block rifle, neutroamine, components, advanced components and 3300 silver.  Then we gift them the remaining goods to get to +76 goodwill.  We have 366kg to haul home and 130 days of food.  It's probably 16-20 days to get home.

## Sep-13-5506 (Khai Adulthood)

Khai has reached age 13. She picks up the ecologist trait and a passion for plants.  Burning passions for shooting and crafting.

My plan is to link her to the Anima Nexus Tree because she can't medidate at the normal anima tree.  Then she'll become the full time tender for that tree.

## Dec-1-5506 (Khai Anima Nexus Tree Link)

Khai is being linked to the nexus tree.  She's going to spend about six or seven hours per day pruning it to maintain the carrier dryads.

## Dec-3-5506 (Caravan Ambushed)

Our caravan has been ambushed by a manhunter pack.

## Dec-4-5506 (Caravan Trader)

Our caravan met traders from Eainor Nation.  We'll buy their books on animals and mining.

## Dec-5-5506 (Caravan Ambushed)

Our caravan has been ambushed by furskin from Fasytt Pack.

One mistake in my plans is that Miah, who I expected to be able to summon animals, is completely out of psycast power due to the trip length.  I'm not sure how to keep their psycast batteries charged during a caravan.  I would have to stop the caravan, setup meditation spots and a focus item, and let them charge up.

## Dec-7-5506 (Caravan Trade)

Caravan trades with a Western Republic caravan and gets 950 silver.

We're delaying the Primeval Jubilee.  It started today, but we have nine days to complete it and our caravan is about five days out.

## Dec-9-5506 (Caravan Trade)

We met another caravan, this time from Andunera.  We're going to sell off the two platybelodons in exchange for an eletex mace.  They're now 4.1 days away from home.

## Dec-10-5506 (Raid, Pollution Lineup)

Three raiders from Pollution Lineup are attacking.  The south group got attacked by six swarmlings (SRgW mod).

Jerky production.  Each piece amplifies the nutritional value from 0.05 to 0.07 while weighing the same at 0.03kg per unit.  Jerky never expires.  So 80 nutrition for a human (50 days) is 80/0.07 or 1150 units.  Fifteen days for a pawn is 1.6 nutrition * 15 days = 24 nutrition or 343 jerky.  Call it 350/15d to be safe.

## Dec-12-5506 (Space Battle, Herschel Joins)

Rescued two humans from a space battle debris field.  Herschel Theobald (M19 baseliner) and Veraalai Cenea (M13 kitul).  We'll see if either joins.

Herschel (M19 baseliner) joins.  He has the super-immune trait and a burning passion for plants.  And he can use nature for his meditation focus.  He is missing his right foot and has a wooden prosthetic.  But we can fix that in a jiffy once he's healed up.  I'm pretty sure he's going to pair up with one of our female colonists (there are five unmarried, aged 25-35).

Veraalai decided not to join.

## Dec-15-5506 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee. Delayed from Dec 7th while we waited for our medicine woman (Senga) to return.

The royal tribute collector is also here.  Senga has 23 honor (Dame) but we've not yet held her ascension ceremony.  Giving gold to the tribute collector will get her up a bit more.  Got +3 from the gold donation but we're still a ways from Praetor (31 honor).

Raid by Wen'thaabu.  One of them is Herschel's lover named Colol Oyster (F28, neanderthal).  I wonder if we can capture her with a Word of Pain.  Unfortunately she's unwaveringly loyal.  Well, we tried to capture her but she got up and was shot dead while being captured.

Hersch gets linked to the anima tree and will go down the wildspeaker path.  We had enough to do five linking rituals in a row giving him a big boost, starting at psycaster level six.

# 5507

## Apr-1-5507 (Caravans for 5507)

- Apr 1st: War merchant from Caquexada Kinship
- Apr 1st: Animal herder from Wasverler -- +97 goodwill
- Apr 3rd: Exotic goods trader from Black Crag Settlement
- Apr 4th: Art patron from Andunera
- Apr 5th: Bulk goods trader from Hatveor -- +76 goodwill to +100 goodwill
- Apr 11th: War merchant from Aka's Clan -- +84 goodwill

Selling off the megalochelys to Caquexada Kinship.  While extremely efficient for nutrition per kg hauled, it's just so slow at moving around the map when a caravan departs or arrives.  Plus we have muffalo now.  The animal herder from Wasverler is willing to take cloth and leather, so we're going to gift a bunch to get +97 goodwill and allied status.

The exotic goods trader from Black Crag settlement was good for a 2nd telescope, two books on medicine, and some plasteel in exchange for pemmican.

## Apr-7-5507 (2nd Reformation)

We converted Hersch to our ideology, giving us enough points for a second reformation.

Sharpshooter is a good meme to pickup, even with the unhappy thoughts from engaging in melee combat.  The increased range on weapons is really useful.  We'll add "Shotslinger" as our shooting specialist role.  We'll move our Primeval Jubilee to Apr 7th, right before the planting season usually starts.  Adding a social festival named Blisse Party with a 50% chance of a recruit.

## Apr-11-5507 (Zyther's Many Friends)

Zyther (M39, prole) is fleeing after profaning a ritual between Black Goblins and Lertroga Pact.  Since both are enemies, we'll accept him.  He's a pyromaniac, so that should be fun.  

## Apr-14-5507 (Raid, Zyther's Chasers)

The raiders have shown up.  Three from the south and seven from the north.  Since both raids have appeared, Miah will summon the wild pack.  Oh, and the two raiding parties are hostile to each other.  So this will be pure chaos.

## Apr-15-5507 (Katten Adulthood)

Katten has reached age 13.  She picks up the masochist trait and a burning passion for animals.  She also picks up passions for social and intellectual.  She'll start down the protector pathway for more Word of Healing pawns.

## Jul-4-5507 (Toxic Fallout Starts)

Toxic fallout starts spreading over the region.  Since Aidan (F37, baseliner) landed behind our walls and refused to bleed out, we captured her.  She has the brawler trait and is incapable of caring.  But there is the burning passion for mining and construction.

## Jul-5-5507 (Sapling Child)

Elm is pregnant with another sapling child.  This time we'll plant it indoors.

## Jul-6-5507 (Aiden Joins)

Aiden has joined after a brief imprisonment.

## Jul-7-5507 (Hyosh Adulthood)

Hyosh reaches age 13.  He picks up the nimble trait and a burning passion for research.  Also regular passions for cooking and medical.

Virus Crew raids at dusk.  Miah summons animals.

## Jul-11-5507 (Pillagers, Gray Owl Clan)

Gray Owl Clan pillagers.  These like to destroy outer structures so we have to engage them with long-range weapons.  One of them survived named Stenfridh 'Hyenaslayer' Gudhlogson (F42, baseliner) with the kind, sanguine, ascetic traits.  But incapable of dumb labor.  Could be a good royalty candidate.

## Jul-12-5507 (Toxic Fallout Ends)

We lost a lot of crops to the toxic fallout.  Not enough to starve us, but we will need a good harvest next summer.

## Sep-1-5507 (Hyena Joins)

We'll shorten 'Hyenaslayer' to just 'Hyena'.

Zyther starts in on the conflagrator psycast path because he's a pyromaniac.

## Sep-10-5507 (Slavers, Gray Owl Clan)

Slavers attacking.  

## Sep-11-5507 (Raid, Nicole's)

Three from Nicole's Tomahawks.  All melee.

We should start cranking through our neolithic technology tree now.

## Dec-7-5507 (Sapling Baby Hatched)

Willow (F, poluxkin) has hatched.  She is the daughter of Elm.

## Dec-10-5507 (Raid, Stladio Dynasty)

Two raiders attacking, chased by a mech tesseron with a beam grazer.  Neither made it off the map.  Our sharpshooting took care of one and a hungry bear took care of the second enemy pawn.

Surprisingly, none of the males have paired up yet:

- Hyosh (M14, gwennin): Too young (must be age 16).
- Zyther (M40, prole): Still betting on Hornet (F35, baseliner) or Senga (F32, baseliner).
- Hersh (M20, baseliner): I'd guess Abere or Hyena.

# 5508

## Apr-7-5508 (Primeval Jubilee)

Primeval Jubilee.

## Apr-11-5508 (Caravan Departs)

Sending out a caravan with Katten (F15), Hyosh (M15), Zyther (M40) and Aiden (F38).  Our target is Gray Cove of the Caquexada Kinship.  They are a gentle tribe and we are neutral with them.  The goal is to offload as much junk as possible and get to allied with them.  It's about 13.5 days in good weather there and probably double that coming back.  So we'll pack for 60 days.

Humans:
- (4) humans at 1.6/day * 50 days = 320 nutrition, round up to 400 if we want to bring anyone back
- 400 nutrition is 5700 jerkey or 8000 smoked meat or 500 pemmican (modded) and it all weighs about the same
- We only have 2180 jerkey or 152 nutrition, leaving us with 250 to take as smoked meat / pemmican
- So 3000 smoked meat and 200 pemmican

Muffalo:
- (5) male muffalo at 0.86/day * 50 days = 215 nutrition
- That's 2400 silage and 2400 kibble

That puts us at 352kg out of 546kg for our base supplies.

We'll carry about 90kg of sellable stuff and 5k silver.

## Apr-12-5508 (Caravan Ambushed)

Caravan gets ambushed.  Zyther loses his right eye.  Aiden takes the brunt of the needleroll damage.  Probably should have closed in for melee to stop it from shooting.  We have 3.9 days before any enemies arrive, so we can setup camp and rest and medidate.



















