# Lloasba Tribe (5500-5509)

- [Lloasba Tribe (5500-5509)](#lloasba-tribe-5500-5509)
- [5510](#5510)
  - [Apr-1-5510 (Rorei Birth)](#apr-1-5510-rorei-birth)
  - [Apr-3-5510 (Dorna Adulthood)](#apr-3-5510-dorna-adulthood)
  - [Apr-5-5510 (Raid: Gray Owl Clan)](#apr-5-5510-raid-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Apr-8-5510 (Sylvie/Gram Lovers)](#apr-8-5510-sylviegram-lovers)
  - [Apr-10-5510 (Meni Adulthood)](#apr-10-5510-meni-adulthood)
  - [Apr-12-5510 (Laxe Age 3)](#apr-12-5510-laxe-age-3)
  - [Apr-13-5510 (Tove Age 7)](#apr-13-5510-tove-age-7)
  - [Apr-14-5510 (Visitor from Rahini)](#apr-14-5510-visitor-from-rahini)
  - [Jul-5-5510 (Royal Tribute Collector)](#jul-5-5510-royal-tribute-collector)
  - [Jul-6-5510 (Tatiana Pregnancy)](#jul-6-5510-tatiana-pregnancy)
  - [Jul-7-5510 (Raid: Marcancan Nation)](#jul-7-5510-raid-marcancan-nation)
  - [Jul-9-5510 (Pet Dobri Dies)](#jul-9-5510-pet-dobri-dies)
  - [Jul-11-5510 (Gram/Green Lovers)](#jul-11-5510-gramgreen-lovers)
  - [Jul-12-5510 (Mouse Adulthood)](#jul-12-5510-mouse-adulthood)
  - [Jul-13-5510 (Psycaster Raid: Shadow Darts)](#jul-13-5510-psycaster-raid-shadow-darts)
  - [Jul-14-5510 (Psychic Bloom)](#jul-14-5510-psychic-bloom)
  - [Sep-1-5510 (Raid: Wakwanya Family)](#sep-1-5510-raid-wakwanya-family)
  - [Sep-7-5510 (Pod Crash)](#sep-7-5510-pod-crash)
  - [Sep-9-5510 (Caravan Arrival)](#sep-9-5510-caravan-arrival)
  - [Sep-10-5510 (Pillagers: GOC)](#sep-10-5510-pillagers-goc)
  - [Sep-11-5510 (Pod Raid: Shadow Darts)](#sep-11-5510-pod-raid-shadow-darts)
  - [Sep-12-5510 (Klecina Pregnancy)](#sep-12-5510-klecina-pregnancy)
  - [Sep-14-5510 (Purple Camino Encampment)](#sep-14-5510-purple-camino-encampment)
  - [Sep-15-5510 (Beau Converts)](#sep-15-5510-beau-converts)
  - [Dec-1-5510 (Rorei Child)](#dec-1-5510-rorei-child)
  - [Dec-5-5510 (Weaponsmith from Andunera)](#dec-5-5510-weaponsmith-from-andunera)
  - [Dec-6-5510 (Vaino Joins)](#dec-6-5510-vaino-joins)
  - [Dec-7-5510 (Skirata Pregnant)](#dec-7-5510-skirata-pregnant)
  - [Dec-8-5510 (Drak/Lynette Lovers)](#dec-8-5510-draklynette-lovers)
  - [Dec-13-5510 (Tove, Age 10)](#dec-13-5510-tove-age-10)
- [5511](#5511)
  - [Apr-1-5511 (Lynette Pregnant)](#apr-1-5511-lynette-pregnant)
  - [Apr-2-5511 (Pod Raid: Pollution Lineup)](#apr-2-5511-pod-raid-pollution-lineup)
  - [Apr-5-5511 (Purple/Klecina Engagement)](#apr-5-5511-purpleklecina-engagement)
  - [Apr-7-5511 (Combat Supplier from Roinum Concord)](#apr-7-5511-combat-supplier-from-roinum-concord)
  - [Apr-9-5511 (Caravan Returns)](#apr-9-5511-caravan-returns)
  - [Apr-12-5511 (Magpie/Peza Lovers)](#apr-12-5511-magpiepeza-lovers)
  - [Apr-13-5511 (Tatiana Pregnant)](#apr-13-5511-tatiana-pregnant)
  - [Apr-14-5511 (Scattered Pod Raid: FP)](#apr-14-5511-scattered-pod-raid-fp)
  - [Apr-15-5511 (Drak/Lynette Engagement)](#apr-15-5511-draklynette-engagement)
  - [Jul-1-5511 (Skunk Birth)](#jul-1-5511-skunk-birth)
  - [Jul-3-5511 (Bulk Goods from Central Republic)](#jul-3-5511-bulk-goods-from-central-republic)
  - [Jul-5-5511 (Dove Birth)](#jul-5-5511-dove-birth)
  - [Jul-7-5511 (Gram/Green Marriage)](#jul-7-5511-gramgreen-marriage)
  - [Jul-8-5511 (Eainor Nation Visitors)](#jul-8-5511-eainor-nation-visitors)
  - [Jul-11-5511 (Bana Childhood)](#jul-11-5511-bana-childhood)
  - [Jul-12-5511 (Drak/Lynette Marriage)](#jul-12-5511-draklynette-marriage)
  - [Jul-15-5511 (Slavers: Gray Owl Clan)](#jul-15-5511-slavers-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Sep-1-5511 (Flu)](#sep-1-5511-flu)
  - [Sep-3-5511 (Sapper Pods: Deadly Rats)](#sep-3-5511-sapper-pods-deadly-rats)
  - [Sep-4-5511 (Hawk Birth)](#sep-4-5511-hawk-birth)
  - [Sep-8-5511 (Ambas Age 7)](#sep-8-5511-ambas-age-7)
  - [Sep-11-5511 (Peza/Magpie Engagement)](#sep-11-5511-pezamagpie-engagement)
  - [Sep-15-5511 (Raid: Gray Owl Clan)](#sep-15-5511-raid-gray-owl-clan)
  - [Dec-1-5511 (Raid: Cangorador Union)](#dec-1-5511-raid-cangorador-union)

# 5510

## Apr-1-5510 (Rorei Birth)

Senga gives birth to healthy baby boy, Rorei.

## Apr-3-5510 (Dorna Adulthood)

Dorna reaches age 13 and she picks up the dog person trait.  She picks up basic passions for shooting, melee and construction.

## Apr-5-5510 (Raid: Gray Owl Clan)

Raid by Gray Owl Clan.  

## Apr-8-5510 (Sylvie/Gram Lovers)

Sylvie and Gram are now lovers.

Carrie reaches age 7 and picks up the jogger trait.  She picks up passions for construction, medical and social.

## Apr-10-5510 (Meni Adulthood)

Meni reaches age 13 and she picks up ascetic.   A burning passion for animals and mining and a regular passion for medical.

## Apr-12-5510 (Laxe Age 3)

Laxe reaches age 3.

## Apr-13-5510 (Tove Age 7)

Tove reaches age 7 and picks up the thick skinned trait.  She picks up passions for cooking, plants and social.

Ler reaches age 7 and picks up the careful shooter trait and passions for melee, shooting and construction.

## Apr-14-5510 (Visitor from Rahini)

A visitor from Rahini.  We gift them enough stuff to get to +100 goodwill.

## Jul-5-5510 (Royal Tribute Collector)

The Royal Tribute Collector is here, not that we have need of them this year.

## Jul-6-5510 (Tatiana Pregnancy)

Tatiana (F24, highmate) is pregnant again.  This will be her seventh child.

## Jul-7-5510 (Raid: Marcancan Nation)

Marcancan Nation is raiding.

## Jul-9-5510 (Pet Dobri Dies)

Dobri our rottweiler dies.  

Visitors from Caquexada Kinship.  We gift them enough to get to +100 goodwill.

Gram/Sylvie are no longer a couple.

## Jul-11-5510 (Gram/Green Lovers)

Gram and Green are now lovers.

## Jul-12-5510 (Mouse Adulthood)

Mouse reaches age 13 and picks up the cold inclined trait and burning passions for medical, plants and cooking.

## Jul-13-5510 (Psycaster Raid: Shadow Darts)

The Shadow Darts are attacking with a pair of deserter psycasters.  Quickly followed by a mech raid from Armlite Mechhive.  

## Jul-14-5510 (Psychic Bloom)

A psychic bloom has started.

I also want to start sending out colonists to build roads.  It's time to put that caravan together and hook our village up to the road network.  But to do that, I'm going to need caravan animals and I don't have those yet.

## Sep-1-5510 (Raid: Wakwanya Family)

WF is raiding.  

Going to send our (8) caravaners over to Stonehurst (South Itin) to the west.  I'm curious whether they have any animals for sale.

## Sep-7-5510 (Pod Crash)

A highmate (F35) has crashed in a pod and she is named Bethany Klecina.  She has kind, distressed, tough and fast walker traits.  She is incapable of violence.  A burning passion for cooking and a normal passion for social.  We'll need to pair her off quickly with an unmarried male to avoid any divorces.  Going to try to pair her off with Purple even though he's only 19.

A mech cluster is landing outside the base.  I didn't manage to salvage the unstable power cell.

Ambas reaches age 3.

## Sep-9-5510 (Caravan Arrival)

The caravan has arrived at Stonehurst.  No hauling animals for sale at that location, nor any excess food.  We may have to have the crew stop and over-winter until food can be brought out to them.

## Sep-10-5510 (Pillagers: GOC)

Gray Owl Clan pillagers.

## Sep-11-5510 (Pod Raid: Shadow Darts)

The Shadow Darts are landing in pods around the base.  We did okay due to the M134 Sentry Gun.  We captured Beau (F26, baseliner).  Artistic focus so no psycasts in her future, but she has hard worker and jogger traits.  But she is incapable of skilled labor or intellectual.  

In the middle of all that Tatiana gives birth to a healthy baby girl, Bana.

## Sep-12-5510 (Klecina Pregnancy)

Klecina (F35, highmate) is pregnant with Purple's (M19, baseliner) child.

We rescue Baeta (F37) from a pod crash.  Not the greatest pawn, but has the natural focus.  

## Sep-14-5510 (Purple Camino Encampment)

We're using the "create encampment" feature for our caravan to see whether it gains back food.  Encampments are autonomous.

## Sep-15-5510 (Beau Converts)

Beau has converted, time to recruit.

## Dec-1-5510 (Rorei Child)

Rorei reaches age 3.

Raid: Red Lake People (RLP).  

## Dec-5-5510 (Weaponsmith from Andunera)

Weaponsmith from Andunera.

## Dec-6-5510 (Vaino Joins)

A female animusen, age 26, named Vaino Chen is joining.  She has the steadfast and ocean lover traits with a critcal passion for medical.

## Dec-7-5510 (Skirata Pregnant)

Skirata (F31, lapis) is pregnant with Damien's (M26, baseliner) child.  

## Dec-8-5510 (Drak/Lynette Lovers)

Drak (M18, baseliner) and Lynette (F17, baseliner) are now lovers.

Primeval Jubilee. Beautiful this year.

Carrie reaches age 10 and she picks up the great memory trait.  She picks up regular traits in cooking, melee and shooting.

## Dec-13-5510 (Tove, Age 10)

Tove reaches age 10 and she picks up burning passions for social and plants.  She gets iron stomach to go with the thick skinned trait.  She picks up passion for shooting.

Ler reaches age 10.  He picks up the ascetic trait.  He picks up passions for animals, medical and plants.

Two alpaca join.  They are capable of hauling but are only good down to -20C temperatures.

# 5511

## Apr-1-5511 (Lynette Pregnant)

Lynette (F18) is already pregnant with Drak's (M18) child.

Klecina gives birth to a baby girl named Heron.

## Apr-2-5511 (Pod Raid: Pollution Lineup)

PL is dropping in.  A bit more of a fight as they landed behind the outer line of defense, but the solar flare had ended and the M134 Sentry Gun did a lot of damage.  The south crew decided to spread out around the marsh pond and we were able to pick them off.

## Apr-5-5511 (Purple/Klecina Engagement)

Purple and Klecina are engaged.

The caravan has setup camp to stop and make food / pemmican.

## Apr-7-5511 (Combat Supplier from Roinum Concord)

Roinum Concord (RC) has sent a combat supplier caravan.

Green/Gram are engaged.

## Apr-9-5511 (Caravan Returns)

Our caravaners have finally returned to Babrin.

## Apr-12-5511 (Magpie/Peza Lovers)

Our nightowls, Peza and Magpie have been turned into lovers.

Muffalo are on the map, time to tame some pack animals.

Laxe reaches age 7 and she picks up the kind trait.  She picks up passions for shooting, animals and medical.

## Apr-13-5511 (Tatiana Pregnant)

Tatiana is pregnant again.

## Apr-14-5511 (Scattered Pod Raid: FP)

Fasytt Pack are landing in scrambled pods.

## Apr-15-5511 (Drak/Lynette Engagement)

Drak and Lynette are now engaged.

Sending out a caravan with concrete blocks to start road building south along the river.

Another ATML frigate lands nearby.

## Jul-1-5511 (Skunk Birth)

Skirata gives birth to a healthy daughter named Skunk.

## Jul-3-5511 (Bulk Goods from Central Republic)

Bulk goods trader from Central Republic.  This is a good chance to unload a ton of stuff.

Suero reaches age 59 and picks up the frail ailment due to age.

Pollution Line-Up drop raid behind the first defensive line on the south side.  Some are injured from the pod drop. 

## Jul-5-5511 (Dove Birth)

Lynette gives birth to a healthy baby boy named Dove.

## Jul-7-5511 (Gram/Green Marriage)

Gram/Green get married.

## Jul-8-5511 (Eainor Nation Visitors)

Visitors from Eainor Nation (EN).  We got to +95 goodwill.

## Jul-11-5511 (Bana Childhood)

Bana reaches age 3.

## Jul-12-5511 (Drak/Lynette Marriage)

Drak/Lynette tie the knot.

Magpie is pregnant.

## Jul-15-5511 (Slavers: Gray Owl Clan)

Slavers from Gray Owl Clan.

## Sep-1-5511 (Flu)

24 colonists are sick with the flu

Traits gained:
- Thykeson: Anxious

## Sep-3-5511 (Sapper Pods: Deadly Rats)

Deadly Rats are landing in pods with sappers.  We took a few small permanent injuries, but nothing deadly.  Captured Oni Bagley (F16, animusen).  Burning passion for shooting.  Too smart trait and incapable of dumb labor.

## Sep-4-5511 (Hawk Birth)

Tatiana gives birth to a healthy baby boy named Hawk.

## Sep-8-5511 (Ambas Age 7)

Ambas reaches age 7 and gains the tough trait.  Passions for cooking, shooting and melee.

## Sep-11-5511 (Peza/Magpie Engagement)

Peza and Magpie are engaged.

Carrie becomes an adult.  She picks up the tough trait and gets burning passions for medical, cooking and melee.

## Sep-15-5511 (Raid: Gray Owl Clan)

GOC raid.

Tove becomes an adult and picks up workaholic.  And normal passions for medical, melee and construction.

## Dec-1-5511 (Raid: Cangorador Union)

CU is attacking, along with some mechs.

Rorei reaches age 7 and picks up martial artist.  That means he goes for melee, construction and cooking passions.

Ler reaches age 13 and picks up the quick sleeper trait.  He picks up burning passions for medical, plants and construction.

Magpie gives birth to a 





