# 5500-5509 Events

- [5500-5509 Events](#5500-5509-events)
- [5500](#5500)
  - [Apr-12 (Parrot is Medicine Man)](#apr-12-parrot-is-medicine-man)
  - [Apr-13 (Cold Snap)](#apr-13-cold-snap)
  - [Apr-15](#apr-15)
  - [Jul-1](#jul-1)
  - [Jul-5](#jul-5)
  - [Jul-10 (Borba/Lanca Lovers)](#jul-10-borbalanca-lovers)
  - [Jul-12](#jul-12)
  - [Sep-2](#sep-2)
  - [Sep-4](#sep-4)
  - [Sep-6 (Hawk Joins)](#sep-6-hawk-joins)
  - [Sep-11 (Hawk Betrayal)](#sep-11-hawk-betrayal)
  - [Sep-12](#sep-12)
  - [Sep-15 (Katlyn Joins)](#sep-15-katlyn-joins)
  - [Dec-2 (Lanca/Borba Engagement)](#dec-2-lancaborba-engagement)
  - [Dec-5 (Katlyn Converted)](#dec-5-katlyn-converted)
  - [Dec-8](#dec-8)
  - [Dec-11](#dec-11)
  - [Dec-15](#dec-15)
- [5501](#5501)
  - [Apr-1 (Katlyn Adulthood)](#apr-1-katlyn-adulthood)
  - [Apr-3 (Borba/Lanca Marriage)](#apr-3-borbalanca-marriage)
  - [Apr-12 (Llobai Joins)](#apr-12-llobai-joins)
  - [Jul-1](#jul-1-1)
  - [Jul-3 (Llobai Betryal)](#jul-3-llobai-betryal)
  - [Jul-8](#jul-8)
  - [Jul-9](#jul-9)
  - [Jul-11](#jul-11)
  - [Sep-9](#sep-9)
  - [Dec-3 (Akira Joins)](#dec-3-akira-joins)
  - [Dec-6 (Nails Joins)](#dec-6-nails-joins)
  - [Dec-7](#dec-7)
  - [Dec-13 (Akira Converts)](#dec-13-akira-converts)
- [5502](#5502)
  - [Apr-2](#apr-2)
  - [Apr-7](#apr-7)
  - [Apr-9](#apr-9)
  - [Apr-11 (Nails Converts)](#apr-11-nails-converts)
  - [Jul-2](#jul-2)
  - [Jul-12 (Elephant/Katlyn Lovers)](#jul-12-elephantkatlyn-lovers)
  - [Jul-14 (Akira Adulthood, Skiphound)](#jul-14-akira-adulthood-skiphound)
  - [Jul-15](#jul-15)
  - [Sep-3 (Elephant Loses Arm)](#sep-3-elephant-loses-arm)
  - [Sep-6](#sep-6)
  - [Sep-12](#sep-12-1)
  - [Sep-13](#sep-13)
  - [Dec-1](#dec-1)
  - [Dec-5](#dec-5)
  - [Dec-7 (Primitive Jubilee)](#dec-7-primitive-jubilee)
  - [Dec-10 (Gut Worms)](#dec-10-gut-worms)
  - [Dec-11 (Nails Adulthood)](#dec-11-nails-adulthood)
- [5503](#5503)
  - [Apr-3](#apr-3)
  - [Apr-5](#apr-5)
  - [Apr-7 (Elephant/Katryn Engagement)](#apr-7-elephantkatryn-engagement)
  - [Apr-13](#apr-13)
  - [Apr-15](#apr-15-1)
  - [Jul-3](#jul-3)
  - [Jul-4 (Katlyn Pregnancy)](#jul-4-katlyn-pregnancy)
  - [Jul-5 (Shuttle Crash)](#jul-5-shuttle-crash)
  - [Jul-13](#jul-13)
  - [Sep-2 (Katlyn's Baby Prep)](#sep-2-katlyns-baby-prep)
  - [Sep-7 (Blizzarisk Clutch Mother)](#sep-7-blizzarisk-clutch-mother)
  - [Sep-8 (Hunting Party, Katyln Labor)](#sep-8-hunting-party-katyln-labor)
  - [Sep-9 (Finch is born)](#sep-9-finch-is-born)
  - [Sep-10 (Medieval Technology Tier)](#sep-10-medieval-technology-tier)
  - [Sep-12](#sep-12-2)
  - [Dec-3](#dec-3)
  - [Dec-7](#dec-7-1)
  - [Dec-13](#dec-13)
- [5504](#5504)
  - [Apr-7](#apr-7-1)
  - [Apr-11](#apr-11)
  - [Apr-15 (Borba Pregnancy)](#apr-15-borba-pregnancy)
  - [Jul-4](#jul-4)
  - [Jul-7 (Space Battle and Shuttle Crash)](#jul-7-space-battle-and-shuttle-crash)
  - [Jul-8 (Linda Joins)](#jul-8-linda-joins)
  - [Jul-9](#jul-9-1)
  - [Jul-12 (Linda Conversion)](#jul-12-linda-conversion)
  - [Sep-1](#sep-1)
  - [Sep-4 (Cagu Birth)](#sep-4-cagu-birth)
  - [Sep-9](#sep-9-1)
  - [Sep-10 (Psychic Bloom)](#sep-10-psychic-bloom)
  - [Sep-13 (Katlyn Pregnancy)](#sep-13-katlyn-pregnancy)
  - [Dec-2](#dec-2)
  - [Dec-7 (2nd Reformation)](#dec-7-2nd-reformation)
  - [Dec-10 (Ape bonds with Bonnie)](#dec-10-ape-bonds-with-bonnie)
  - [Dec-11 (Linda/Bell Lovers)](#dec-11-lindabell-lovers)
  - [Dec-15 (Creaghan Joins)](#dec-15-creaghan-joins)
- [5505](#5505)
  - [Apr-2 (Baby Jay Birth)](#apr-2-baby-jay-birth)
  - [Apr-3 (Creaghan Converts)](#apr-3-creaghan-converts)
  - [Apr-4 (Linda Pregnant)](#apr-4-linda-pregnant)
  - [Apr-8 (Meyverya Joins, Banished)](#apr-8-meyverya-joins-banished)
  - [Apr-10 (Bell/Linda Engagement)](#apr-10-belllinda-engagement)
  - [Apr-13 (Lulu, Fennic Fox)](#apr-13-lulu-fennic-fox)
  - [Apr-15 (Pillage Raid, The Black Otter Clan)](#apr-15-pillage-raid-the-black-otter-clan)
  - [Jul-1 (Raid, Begua Treaty)](#jul-1-raid-begua-treaty)
  - [Jul-3 (Flu)](#jul-3-flu)
  - [Jul-3 (Cagu Childhood)](#jul-3-cagu-childhood)
  - [Jul-6](#jul-6)
  - [Jul-7 (Bell/Linda Wedding)](#jul-7-belllinda-wedding)
  - [Jul-8 (Hornet Birth)](#jul-8-hornet-birth)
  - [Jul-14](#jul-14)
  - [Sep-3 (Raid, Begua Treaty, Black Hive Attack)](#sep-3-raid-begua-treaty-black-hive-attack)
  - [Sep-5 (Nails Gets Mauled)](#sep-5-nails-gets-mauled)
  - [Sep-11 (Creaghan Adulthood)](#sep-11-creaghan-adulthood)
  - [Sep-15 (Toxic Fallout Starts)](#sep-15-toxic-fallout-starts)
  - [Dec-1 (Toxic Fallout Ends)](#dec-1-toxic-fallout-ends)
  - [Dec-2 (Jay Childhood)](#dec-2-jay-childhood)
  - [Dec-7](#dec-7-2)
  - [Dec-8 (Raid, Black Delta Settlement)](#dec-8-raid-black-delta-settlement)
  - [Dec-9 (Psychic Storm)](#dec-9-psychic-storm)
  - [Dec-12](#dec-12)
  - [Dec-15 (Chocer Tribe Raid)](#dec-15-chocer-tribe-raid)
- [5506](#5506)
  - [Apr-6](#apr-6)
  - [Apr-9](#apr-9-1)
  - [Apr-11](#apr-11-1)
  - [Jul-1](#jul-1-2)
  - [Jul-4](#jul-4-1)
  - [Jul-7](#jul-7)
  - [Jul-8 (Katyln Pregnancy)](#jul-8-katyln-pregnancy)
  - [Jul-9 (Black Hive Attack)](#jul-9-black-hive-attack)
  - [Jul-10](#jul-10)
  - [Jul-11](#jul-11-1)
  - [Jul-14 (Linda Pregnancy)](#jul-14-linda-pregnancy)
  - [Sep-1 (Space Battle)](#sep-1-space-battle)
  - [Sep-12 (Hawk Born to Elephant/Katlyn)](#sep-12-hawk-born-to-elephantkatlyn)
  - [Sep-14](#sep-14)
  - [Dec-1 (Black Crag Settlement Raid)](#dec-1-black-crag-settlement-raid)
  - [Dec-2](#dec-2-1)
  - [Dec-4 (Wasp Born to Bell/Linda)](#dec-4-wasp-born-to-belllinda)
  - [Dec-7](#dec-7-3)
  - [Dec-11 (Finch Adulthood)](#dec-11-finch-adulthood)
  - [Dec-12](#dec-12-1)
- [5507](#5507)
  - [Apr-4](#apr-4)
  - [Apr-9](#apr-9-2)
  - [Jul-6 (Raid, Black Otter Clan)](#jul-6-raid-black-otter-clan)
  - [Jul-7 (Raid, Pill Party)](#jul-7-raid-pill-party)
  - [Jul-13](#jul-13-1)
  - [Jul-14 (Delilah Joins)](#jul-14-delilah-joins)
  - [Jul-15 (Bell/Linda Breakup)](#jul-15-belllinda-breakup)
  - [Sep-2](#sep-2-1)
  - [Sep-3](#sep-3)
  - [Sep-5](#sep-5)
  - [Sep-8](#sep-8)
  - [Sep-12 (Grant Joins)](#sep-12-grant-joins)
  - [Sep-14 (Caravan)](#sep-14-caravan)
  - [Sep-15 (Arrival)](#sep-15-arrival)
  - [Dec-2 (Return, Katlyn Pregnancy, Furona Dynasty Raid)](#dec-2-return-katlyn-pregnancy-furona-dynasty-raid)
  - [Dec-5 (Grant Converts)](#dec-5-grant-converts)
  - [Dec-6 (Cagu Adulthood)](#dec-6-cagu-adulthood)
  - [Dec-7](#dec-7-4)
  - [Dec-9](#dec-9)
  - [Dec-14](#dec-14)
  - [Dec-15 (Industrial Tech)](#dec-15-industrial-tech)
- [5508](#5508)
  - [Apr-3 (Grant Adulthood)](#apr-3-grant-adulthood)
  - [Apr-6](#apr-6-1)
  - [Jul-5 (Jay Adulthood)](#jul-5-jay-adulthood)

# 5500

## Apr-12 (Parrot is Medicine Man)

Parrot is promoted to the role of Medicine Man.  Lanca was late to the event.

Tribe hunts a few muffalo for their fur and meat.  Ape takes some damage from a maddened muffalo.

## Apr-13 (Cold Snap)

Cold snap.  Takes temps from 12C down to about 3C.  But nighttime temperatures have dropped below -10C, killing all of the already planted crops.  The colonists only have 18 days left of food.

## Apr-15

Planted Lulabloom in flower pots in the barracks.  This helps reduce/remove the "disturbed sleep" debuff for nearby beds.

Parrot loses his left big toe to a mad muffalo and Lanca lost his left index finger.

## Jul-1

Cold snap ends.  We may struggle with veggies this winter unless the rice, potatoes, green beans and carrots get enough growing days before the fall.

## Jul-5

Basic fence line created, separating us off from the outside world.

## Jul-10 (Borba/Lanca Lovers)

Borba and Lanca are now lovers.  (They seem to be naturally suited for each other given this is the second time it's happened.  I restarted an old save for this playthrough.)

War Merchant from Canca Confederacy (Gentle Tribe, Neutral +0 relations).

## Jul-12

Genetics Supplier from Gaentussia (Civil Outlander Union, Neutral +0).

## Sep-2

Sellswords from Fenthiussia Kingdom (Civil Kingdom, Neutral +0).

## Sep-4 

Royal Tribute Collector from The Gray Sovereignty (Shattered Empire, Neutral +0).

## Sep-6 (Hawk Joins)

Wanderer, Hawk (M63), joins.  A jogger with great memory, but incapable of animal-related work.  Will put him to work on construction, hauling then research.

Current Research Queue:
- Primitive Instruments
- Basic Furniture
- Smithing

Two colonists (Lanca and Elephant) have contracted the flu.  I make Parrot "preach health" to Lanca after doing the initial tending.

## Sep-11 (Hawk Betrayal)

Hawk turns out to be a traitor.  Parrot gets the privilege of meleeing him to death.

Elephant has the workaholic trait, which means he keeps collapsing after working hard away from the colony buildings.  So he's now restricted to the "inner" zone which is a loose zone around our farms and main buildings.  Lanca and Borba are also restricted to the inner zone for safety reasons.

## Sep-12

Bulk Goods Trader from The Serpent Clan (Rough Clan, Neutral +0).

A drought has started, which will eliminate growing on nearly all but rich soil.  Fortunately, it's the end of fall and past our growing season.  Hopefully it goes away by the time we start spring planting.

## Sep-15 (Katlyn Joins)

Accepted Katlyn as a refugee in exchange for 10 days of forced fog weather.  She is a 12 year old child genetically designed as a "highmate" (incapable of violence, designed to be concubines).

Unfortunately for her, she is staggeringly ugly!  And she has ears and a tail.  She does have good cooking and social skills, so we'll see whether she fits in.  We'll have to convert her to our religion as she is currently a vegan who abhors wearing leather and fishing/ranching.

## Dec-2 (Lanca/Borba Engagement)

Lanca/Borba will be getting married soon.  Parrot attempts a 1-on-1 conversion attempt on Katlyn (certainty in her faith dropped to 55%).  This will be followed by a larger ritual at our ceremonial bonfire in three days.  

## Dec-5 (Katlyn Converted)

The drought has ended.  The conversion ritual was held today for Katlyn.  She started with 59%, but ritual quality was only 49%.  Amazingly, it was a masterful conversion ritual and she is now part of our faith.  The attendees all get a +6 mood boost for 6 days.

## Dec-8

Primitive Jubilee week has come.

## Dec-11

Setup a basic "[Life Lessons classroom](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2920678419)" for Lanca, Parrot and Borba to teach what they know to Katlyn (and each other).  Parrot only teaches once per season (quadrum).

- Borba (1st, 6th, 11th): Reading and Writing, Basic Fabrication, Basic Mathmatics, Construction
- Lanca (2nd, 7th, 12th): Basic Fabrication, Cooking
- Parrot (15th): Basic Fabrication, Tailoring

The neolithic tech of Primitive Instruments has completed.  I can now build a Marimba for another source of recreation.  We need (per "[Tech Advance]() mod") to complete 75% of all neolithic techs before we can advanced to medieval tech research.  Unless we advance, the next tier of research costs 10x the standard costs.

## Dec-15

The Black Delta Settlement calls us and demands $783 silver for "protection".  We refuse.

# 5501

## Apr-1 (Katlyn Adulthood)

Katyln becomes an adult (F13), but is still a teenager for some game mechanics.  Given that she only arrived a quadrum prior, she only gets to pick from 1 skill and 1 trait.  She gets plants as a passion and the perfectionist trait.  Still incapable of violence.

We have about 34 days of food left (mostly pemmican).

## Apr-3 (Borba/Lanca Marriage)

Parrot and Elephant get into a social fight.  Borba and Lanca get married.

## Apr-12 (Llobai Joins)

Planting has begun over the past week.

A wanderer named Llobai wants to join the colony.  He is age 47, belongs to our ideology and is a big-boned perfectionist menagerist but is incapable of caring.  Passions in melee and animals.  He'll make an okay hunter/hauler.

Unfortunately, with the colonist growth we now have a -15 mood due to not having any megaliths built for our ideology.  But that's a medieval technology that we don't have yet and would be a 24,000 research point effort (compared to the 500-2000 point technologies that we are currently researching).

## Jul-1

Thugs from Bekisdus Pact called and offered "protection" for $837 silver.  Naturally, we refused.

## Jul-3 (Llobai Betryal)

We are now zero for two on joiners.  Llobai is betraying us.

## Jul-8

A space battle is occurring overhead and random junk is now crashing to the ground in the southwest corner of the map.  To avoid any of our colonists being killed, we're restricting movement.

And now a feralisk clutch mother has shown up.  Yet another reason to hide away for a while.  It can't survive below -12C and winter is coming.

## Jul-9

Finished "Basic Furniture" research.  Now we're going to try and tech-rush "Basic Work Benches" and then "Stonecutting" in order to unlock Megaliths in a year or three.  Assuming that [Life Lessons](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2920678419) doesn't prevent that.

Actually... scratch that.  Given the disparity in research difficulty, we should focus on completing our neolithic techs.

## Jul-11

An early cold snap in the last part of the fall.  This should kill off the feralisks.  Or not, it wore off after only two days and didn't get cold enough to impact them.

## Sep-9

The feralisks are gone.  Probably due to the weather getting below -15C.

## Dec-3 (Akira Joins)

A child named Akira (M10) wants to join.  Since they are a child, we will let them in.  He is greedy with a vow of non-violence.  Only has basic passions for mining and social.  We'll need to convert him to our ideology and will immediately hold the group ritual.

Ritual got his certainty down to just 16%, but failed to convert.  Parrot will do a one-on-one conversion in three days.

## Dec-6 (Nails Joins)

Another child, Nails (M8), wants to join.  He's young enough that his only trait is animal lover with a passion for crafting.  

Parrot wore Akira down to just 3% certainty, but failed to convert.

## Dec-7

This evening is the annual Primeval Jubilee.  It was unforgettable, giving us +20 with The Orange Oasis Settlement and giving us enough points to reform our ideology.

Going to add Collectivist for our second meme, then pickup Immunity:Enhanced for a precept.

## Dec-13 (Akira Converts)

Parrot finally converted Akira to our ideology.

# 5502

## Apr-2

Borba has agreed that the tribe will watch a pet gila monster for 14 days.  It is the pet of Palatina Bryennios, a praetor of The Gray Sovereignty (empire).  The reward is +9 honor for Borba.  It's an omnivore and has paralytic abasia, so we'll need the animal tenders to watch it and feed it.

Borba and Katlyn are both now on research duties, except during planting and harvesting season.

## Apr-7

Because of negative mood debuffs due to his prior religion, Akira is now following Nails around and insulting him non-stop.

Parrot attempts to convert Nails.  Reduced Nails certainty from 100% to just 82%.  Pretty good for a first attempt.

## Apr-9

Nails reaches age ten and gains the trait, early bird.  He did not learn enough to get any passions.

## Apr-11 (Nails Converts)

Conversion ritual for Nails.  A masterful ritual converted Nails to our ideology.

## Jul-2

It's been a long time since our last trade caravan.  I think the last one we had was in Sep 5501, almost two years ago.

The empire's pet has survived and was launched on the shuttle in the early hours.  Borba is now a freeholder in the empire.

## Jul-12 (Elephant/Katlyn Lovers)

Bulk goods trader from Eveeron Accord (Civil Outlander Union, Neutral +0) and one of the guards, Zlata, is Lanca's sister.  They have some textbooks for sale (tailoring, computers, advanced fabrication).  

Elephant (M19) and Katyln (F16) are now lovers.  Due to Katyln's genetic background (highmate) they are now permanently bonded and one will go insane if the other one dies.  They will also be unhappy if both are not on the same map.

## Jul-14 (Akira Adulthood, Skiphound)

Akira (M13) is now nicknamed 'Bell' and has become an adult.  He picked up the iron stomach trait and a burning passion for mining with some passion for intellectual pursuits.  He's still a pacifist.

Ape managed to tame the skiphound (F, age 2) and named her 'Bonnie'.

## Jul-15

A weaponsmith caravan from Fenthiussia Kingdom (Civil Kingdom, Neutral +0) is visiting.  They have a pair of smilodon (M9, F28).  Given that they usually only live 30 years, the age of the female is concerning.  But maybe they'll have a litter before she dies.  Their filth rate is only 1.0 (compared to the 2.0 of the skiphound).

I think... I'm going to pass.  The age of the female smilodon is very concerning.

## Sep-3 (Elephant Loses Arm)

Ape/Elephant have a social fight at the binge party started by Parrot.  To add insult to injury, Lanca fails to tend properly and removes Elephant's left arm!  This can happen due to Life Lessons if the tending pawn does not have the First Aid skill.

## Sep-6

Bulk goods trader from Canca Confederacy (Gentle Tribe, Neutral +1)

## Sep-12

Exotic goods trader from Eveeron Accord (Civil Outlander Union, Neutral +11).  This trader has the telescope for another source of joy!  We're also going to pick up a pair of leather-bound books on shooting ([Vanilla Books Expanded mod]()).

## Sep-13

Feast, hosted by Parrot.

## Dec-1

Genetics supplier from Confederacy of Esler (Civil Xenohuman Union, Neutral +0).

Lanca teaches "Basic Fabrication" and "Cooking" every 5th day, but all of the colonists except for Elephant and Ape have mastered those personal skills.  That means Lanca's classes will be getting cancelled for the forseeable future.

## Dec-5

Lanca/Ape social fight.  Hopefully the two of them heal in time for the Primitive Jubilee.

## Dec-7 (Primitive Jubilee)

Primitive Jubilee.  Lanca was able to attend, with a limp.  It was a beautiful festival, getting us up to +65 with Orange Oasis Settlement.

Nails is almost an adult (age 13) and has learned up to tier 7.  This will give him 2 passions from 4 options and 1 trait from 4 options.  I plan on Nails taking over the hauling/cleaning duties from Bell (Akira) and then put Bell into the quarry.

## Dec-10 (Gut Worms)

Three of our colonists are sick with gut worms: Ape, Lanca, Parrot.

Nails hit teir 8.  Which will give him 3 passions from 6 options and 1 trait from 6 options.

## Dec-11 (Nails Adulthood)

He picks up the tough trait, passion for shooting/construction and a burning passion in crafting.

# 5503

Still stuck in neolithic technologies.  As Spring approaches, we have to take Borba off of prioritized research duties and have her do farming.

## Apr-3

Parrot/Nails social fight.  

## Apr-5

Ape goes on an insulting spree targeted at Nails.

## Apr-7 (Elephant/Katryn Engagement)

Elephant/Katryn are now engaged to be married.

## Apr-13

The empire's tribute collector (Philaros, awakenend android) is visiting.  

## Apr-15

Shaman merchant from The Purple Frog Tol (Gentle Tribe, Neutral +0) is visiting.

## Jul-3

Animal herder from Fenthiussia Kingdom (Civil Kingdom).

## Jul-4 (Katlyn Pregnancy)

Katyln is pregnant.  

## Jul-5 (Shuttle Crash)

A shuttle crashed nearby, destroying part of our bridge over the southwest swamp.  

## Jul-13

We have achieved a cornerstone point for our civilization due to our work on research.  The "Cult of Inner Strength" feels right as it lowers our mental break threshold by 5% and makes everyone more resilient from bad thoughts.

## Sep-2 (Katlyn's Baby Prep)

Six days until birth, time to start preparations.  We already have some baby food and a crib.

I caught Nails reading the leather-bound shooting book, which boosted his shooting skill.

## Sep-7 (Blizzarisk Clutch Mother)

There's now a Blizzarisk Clutch Mother outside the walls.  Since it's almost winter, we have plenty of pemmican, and we are preparing for a birth -- I'm just going to restrict everyone to the "Inner1" zone which is the growing areas and the main buildings.  Well away from any exterior walls.  I don't want to send Ape/Nails to their death fighting it.

## Sep-8 (Hunting Party, Katyln Labor)

A hunting party from The Green Stream Settlement (Civil Settlers) is passing by.  They are armed with more modern weapons.  Maybe after they hunt all the muffalo on the map they'll go after the blizzarisks.  Ah, no luck.  They each killed a muffalo and then exited the map with it.

Katlyn goes into labor.  We have an 89% of a healthy baby and a 1.3% chance of the mother's death.  Lanca has 10 in medicine and will be the attending doctor.

## Sep-9 (Finch is born)

Finch has been born to Katyln/Elephant.  A healthy baby girl.

Ape/Lanca get into a social fight. 

This Life Lessons mod is brutal.  Elephant lost an arm ages ago due to Lanca's poor First Aid skill and now Ape loses an arm while being tended to by Parrot.

## Sep-10 (Medieval Technology Tier)

We've advanced to the medieval technology level.  Now we can start the research needed for megaliths.  We need one per every third colonist and we already have a population of nine.  Each megalith takes 550 stone blocks, so we'll need to work on that as well.

## Sep-12

The shattered empire's tribute collector (Herkalos, hussar) is visiting.  We have no gold for tribute this season.

## Dec-3

Finished the stonecutting research which unlocks the Megalith structure (under the miscellaneous category).  We have saved up the 1100 marble stone blocks for a pair of them to be built right away.

Meanwhile, outside the walls, there are now thirteen tiny blizzarisk running around in addition to their clutch mother.

## Dec-7

Primitive Jubilee held after sunset.  

## Dec-13

The blizzarisk clutch mother has finally left the map, leaving behind 15 blizzarisk of various sizes.  They have started hunting anything that moves.

We have constructed three megaliths and are working on a 4th.  This eliminated the -15 mood penalty of everyone in our ideology as we didn't have enough of them built.

# 5504

## Apr-7

Still a bunch of blizzarisk on the map.  Here comes an exotic goods trader from Eveeron Accord (Civil Outlander Union).  We'll buy a fur-cover intellectual book and a pair of engineering textbooks.  

## Apr-11

War merchant from Camisa Nation (Multicultural Tribe).

NOTE: I am having problems figuring out why I can't research "Complex Furniture".  The message in the UI is "missing research spot".  I suspect a mod conflict, but I'm not sure which/what yet.  To troubleshoot this, I turned off "[Research Tree (Continued)](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=3030499331)" and then loaded the save.  Then I looked at the research node again and found that it uses a "Research Spot" in the miscellaneous category.  Which is not the same as the tribal level research spot in the production category.  This bug may be caused by "Vanilla Factions Expanded - Tribals" or at least that is the mod which adds the "Research Spot" under the miscellaneous category.

## Apr-15 (Borba Pregnancy)

Borba/Lanca are now expecting.  Given that Borba (F37) is older than Katlyn (F19), this is a riskier pregnancy.

## Jul-4

Well, all the blizzarisk have vanished, but now a feralisk clutch mother shows up.

## Jul-7 (Space Battle and Shuttle Crash)

Space battle over the western half of the map.  Maybe we'll get lucky and a chunk will land on the feralisk clutch mother. This was followed quickly by a shuttle crash inside the walls in another of our marshy areas.  There are two survivors of the shuttle crash.

- Lori Quaso (F26): Has the nimble trait, passion for plants (13) and animals (17) and a burning passion in medical (10).  They are an Artemid (modded race) xenotype which can spit acid once per hour.
- Onno Bullerdiek (M20): Has the animal lover and coward traits.  Is completely incapable of social.  Has burning passions for animals and artistic work.  With passion for crafting and medical.

If both survive and join, they will need to be converted to our ideology to avoid issues.  Lori is maybe the more important one as she would help with the male/female balance in the colony and has more useful skills.

We're also going to try and save one of the ship battle survivors.

- Linda Shoda (F18): Has the thick skinned trait, making her less likely to bleed out.  But she is incapable of violence.  Passions for intellectual, mining, cooking and plants.  A burning passion for animals.  Her downside would be her asthma (minor) in both lungs.

Parrot has mastered first aid.  I'm going to setup a specific class to teach that to Lanca who is only 50% or so through the skill.  That will help with the accidental removal of limbs while tending.

## Jul-8 (Linda Joins)

Linda has joined.  She has a huge -18 mood debuff due to her ideology (wants us to raid other settlements).  That pushes her up the list for conversion priority.

We have (7) completed megaliths at the moment, giving us a population cap of 21 before we run into issues with the -15 mood debuff due to not having enough.  I already have plans down to build another six which will make our population cap to be 39 total pawns.

Quaso has decided not to join.  I don't have a prison cell set up, so I'm not going to stop her.

## Jul-9

Finch has reached age three and is no longer an infant.

Onno has decided not to join.  That leaves us with just Linda.

The Complex Furniture reseearch has completed.  Now I can delete the "Research Spot" from VFE-T mod and Katlyn can go back to using a normal research desk.

## Jul-12 (Linda Conversion)

Conversion ritual starts for Linda.  It was a masterful ritual and Linda has converted to our ideology, removing her -18 mood debuff.

Genetics supplier from Confederacy of Esler (Civil Xenohuman Union).

## Sep-1

Shaman merchant from Camisa Nation (Multicultural Tribe).  One of them is Leri Toad (M43), brother of Parrot.

## Sep-4 (Cagu Birth)

Borba (F37) has gone into labor.  Expected quality is 61%.  Death of mother is at 2.1% and there is an 89% chance of a healthy baby.  Lanca will be the attending doctor.

Wow, that was a fast birth.  About two hours from start to finish.  We have a healthy baby girl, Cambiar 'Cagu' Lándotro.

## Sep-9

The feralisks have left the map.  I'm sure they'll be back some day.

Bulk goods trader from Camisa Nation (Multicultural Tribe).

## Sep-10 (Psychic Bloom)

A rare psychic bloom has hit the area. This will spawn flowers everywhere, including in our fields.  Fortunately it is late fall and the fields mostly lie fallow except for the over-winter crops.

## Sep-13 (Katlyn Pregnancy)

Katyln is pregnant again.

## Dec-2

Royal empire tribute collector.  We don't have the gold to give them this season.

## Dec-7 (2nd Reformation)

Primitive Jubilee was held after sunset.  This got us enough points to reform our ideology.  We're going to pickup "Sharpshooter" (mod added meme) which unlocks the "shooter specialist" role and the "combat prowess: distance" precept.  Without mods you would have to choose the "Raider" or "Supremacist" memes.  Neither meme appeals to me for this playthrough where we are starting as a gentle tribe that abhors slavery and cannibalism.  The downside of the required precept is that any melee fighters will get a -5 mood when not attacking with ranged weapons.  But it gives +20% range and +10% accuracy.

## Dec-10 (Ape bonds with Bonnie)

Ape has bonded with Bonnie (our pet female skiphound).  She is age 5 now.

## Dec-11 (Linda/Bell Lovers)

Linda (F19) and Bell (F18) are now lovers.

## Dec-15 (Creaghan Joins)

A wandering child (age 10) wants to join the colony.  His name is Creaghan and refuses to talk about his background.  Given his ideology, probably a refugee from a raiding clan.  He does have some passion for hunting and social to start.  Given his anxious trait, he should be an easy convert.  We'll try first thing this evening with a colony conversion ritual.  Well, it was an effective quality ritual, but he is still part of his original ideology, but with only 23% certainty.

# 5505

## Apr-2 (Baby Jay Birth)

Katryn enters labor.  With Lanca as the doctor we expect an 89% healthy child and only a 1% chance of the mother's death.  It's a bouncing baby boy named Trobo 'Jay' Elephant.

## Apr-3 (Creaghan Converts)

Linda was able to convert Creaghan while socializing.

## Apr-4 (Linda Pregnant)

Bell/Linda are expecting already.

## Apr-8 (Meyverya Joins, Banished)

A hostess in training, Meyverya, wants to join.  Turns out she's a Strigoli, basically a vampire.  We're immediately banishing her.

Bell tries to propose to Linda, but is turned down.

## Apr-10 (Bell/Linda Engagement)

Bell tried again and Linda accepted.

## Apr-13 (Lulu, Fennic Fox)

Lanca saved a fennic fox from a transport pod crash.  The two have formed a bond.

## Apr-15 (Pillage Raid, The Black Otter Clan)

Turns out I had the difficulty set to minimal, so I'm going to slowly bump it up!  Our first raid is a single melee pawn from The Black Otter Clan.

## Jul-1 (Raid, Begua Treaty)

Randy is awake now... but this unfortunate raider (Begua Treaty) spawned in along with some swarmlings who are attacking him.  This can happen due to the [Sometimes Raids Go Wrong mod](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1551336515).  

## Jul-3 (Flu)

Three colonists have caught the flu: Borba, Finch and Lanca.

## Jul-3 (Cagu Childhood)

Cagu (F3), child of Borba/Lanca, has become a child.

## Jul-6

Borba/Lanca have developed immunity to the flu, Finch is lagging behind but will easily beat it.  But Lanca developed the nervous trait afterwards.

## Jul-7 (Bell/Linda Wedding)

Bell/Linda tied the knot in our ritual temple today.  Linda is very pregnant.

Finch reaches age 7 (learning tier 6) and picks up the medical passion and great memory trait.

Linda enters labor.

## Jul-8 (Hornet Birth)

Linda gives birth to a healthy baby boy, Purple 'Hornet' Shoda, after about five hours of labor.

## Jul-14

Lulu (fennic fox) comes down with plague.  A combat supplier from Orange Oasis Settlement (Civil Settlers) with a member named Zajdel (Elephant's father).  We have +60 with this faction due to our annual jubilee.

## Sep-3 (Raid, Begua Treaty, Black Hive Attack)

Another single pawn raid.  Time to bump up the difficulty another notch.  The Randy Random storyteller then stacks a Black Hive attack on top.  Fortunately, this means the single Begua Treat pawn will fight the single mammoth worm within range of our embrasure.  So a few colonists get target practice while watching the 1v1 battle.

## Sep-5 (Nails Gets Mauled)

Nails (M18) gets mauled by a maddened cave bear.  It was a passing hunting party from Eveeron Accord which wounded the beast but failed to finish it off.  Fortunately, Lanca and others were able to kill the beast and save Nails from bleeding out.  It took five pieces of herbal medicine to stop the bleeding which is why I have every colonist carry three pieces.  Lanca was able to pickup the three pieces that Nails dropped to finish the field treatment.

## Sep-11 (Creaghan Adulthood)

Shaman merchant from Canca Confederacy (Gentle Tribe).  

Creaghan (male) has reached age 13 and is now considered an adult for most things.  He reached growth tier 8 and gets to pick one trait and three passions.  I'm going to pick the "Too Smart" trait in order to offset his "Anxious" trait which nulls out the uncertainty about his ideology.  He had passions in shooting, artistic, social and intellectual.  I'm going to give him a burning passion in artistic and then have him pickup mining and plants for his other two passions.

## Sep-15 (Toxic Fallout Starts)

Toxic fallout is spreading across the region.  We'll need to keep everyone under cover.

## Dec-1 (Toxic Fallout Ends)

The fallout has diminished in only about two days.

## Dec-2 (Jay Childhood)

Royal Tribute Collector visits.  Jay becomes a child.

## Dec-7

Primitive Jubilee.

## Dec-8 (Raid, Black Delta Settlement)

Time to see what the storyteller sent us for this raid from The Black Delta Settlement.  Looks like a single person with a repeating shotgun.

## Dec-9 (Psychic Storm)

A psychic storm has begun.

## Dec-12

A winterborn standard-bearer Gwennin (modded dog-like humans) from Camisa Nation (Multicultural Tribe) has crashed nearby.  She is named Cheo Rochalouscu, age 29, with tough and psychically deaf traits.  We're sending out a party to try and rescue her.

## Dec-15 (Chocer Tribe Raid)

Cheo is leaving to go home.  Fortunately, she escaped just before a single-person raid from Chocer Tribe showed up.

# 5506

## Apr-6

We're going to host Decima Orca from Eastern Republic for 11 days in exchange for goodwill.  Orca has paralytic abasia, so we just have to keep them in the hospital for the duration.

## Apr-9

Finch reaches age 10 and has a growth moment.  She already has a passion for medical and has the great memory trait.  Her personal First Aid skill is also maxed out from attending Life Lessons classes taught by Lanca.  So she'll make for a good doctor and researcher.  She's picking up the tough trait and passions in shooting, intellectual and plants.  Giving her a second level of passion in medical was not an option.

Hornet reaches age 3 and has a growth moment.  The only decision you make when they reach age 3 is whether they remain a colonist or become a slave or something else.

## Apr-11

Feralisk clutch mother.

## Jul-1

Shaman merchant from The Serpent Clan.

## Jul-4

Cago hits age 7 and earns the steadfast trait and passions in crafting, cooking and animals.

## Jul-7

War merchant from Union of Comba.

## Jul-8 (Katyln Pregnancy)

Katyln (F21) and Elephant (M23) are expecting their third child.

## Jul-9 (Black Hive Attack)

Simple black hive attack with a pair of spiders.

## Jul-10

Combat supplier from Confederacy of Esler.

## Jul-11

Combat supplier from Gaentussia (Civil Outlander Union).

Four colonists have come down with sensory mechanites: Elphant (M23), Lanca (M55), Bell (M20), and Jay (F5).

## Jul-14 (Linda Pregnancy)

Linda (F20) and Bell (M20) are expecting their second child.

## Sep-1 (Space Battle)

Another space battle is taking place overhead over the western part of our lands.

## Sep-12 (Hawk Born to Elephant/Katlyn)

Katyln entered labour around 8pm.  Lanca will be the attending doctor for the birth.  Tona 'Hawk' Elephant was born after about five hours and is a healthy baby boy.  Our tribe now numbers (15) colonists with (4) children and (1) baby.  And another baby is on the way with Linda's pregnancy.  I've changed Borba/Lanca to try and avoid pregnancy due to their age.  You can set that in the social tab and it reduces pregnancy rates to 1/4 of normal.

## Sep-14

Bulk goods trader from Eastern Republic.

## Dec-1 (Black Crag Settlement Raid)

A pair of raiders from The Black Crag Settlement has arrived.  They have a good hunting rifle that we'll want to take.

## Dec-2

Jay reaches age 7 and picks up plants, social and mining as passions.  For his trait, he gets ecologist.

Kinkrova Pack raids us but is set upon by a pack of ripper hounds.

## Dec-4 (Wasp Born to Bell/Linda)

Linda goes into labor around 3am.  Lanca will be the attending doctor.  Okapi 'Wasp' Shoda is a healthy baby boy, born after about 3 hours of labor.

## Dec-7

Primitive Jubilee.

## Dec-11 (Finch Adulthood)

Finch has reached age 13 and become an adult.  She's picking up a burning passion for plants and regular passions for cooking and crafting.  Her trait addition will be "kind".

## Dec-12 

Insect raid, including one which can knock down doors and walls.

Katlyn finally gets a chance to return to the research table and finish out "Complex Clothing".

# 5507

## Apr-4

Cagu reaches age 7.  She is picking up passions for shooting, construction and medical.  With "Refined Palate" as her new trait.

## Apr-9

Hornet reaches age 7.  He is picking up tough and construction, mining and social.

## Jul-6 (Raid, Black Otter Clan)

Pillagers from The Black Otter Clan are attacking.  They came in, stole some black hive insect jelly leftovers from the black hive attack a few days ago, then left.

## Jul-7 (Raid, Pill Party)

A trio of wasters from Pill Party have shown up to party with us.  

## Jul-13

Hawk becomes a child.

## Jul-14 (Delilah Joins)

A precocious 3 year old hacker named Delilah wants to join us in exchange for escaping from her captors.  However, her plan involves blotting out the sun for 15 days due to the massive fires she plans on setting.  I'm going to roll the dice and see what happens.  Ah, that explains the age and background, she is an awakened android.  

## Jul-15 (Bell/Linda Breakup)

Wow, Bell/Linda have broken up.  Bell told Linda that it's not working out, even with their two healthy sons.

## Sep-2

Delilah's power core is down to 98% already after just two days.  So I'm guessing that unless the colony gets a solar panel or something up and running, she'll die about two years after joining?  Well, I checked, you have to replace the power core after the previous one runs down.  The android doesn't die, it just goes dormant.  So we'll get about two years of work out of her and then we'll have to scavenge / find / buy a power core.

Shuttle crash in the southeastern swamp with four survivors.  

- Kam To Mackenzie (M42): Sanguine but incapable of caring. Has interests in construction, mining and a burning passion for research.  
- Francois (M56): Has frail back and no useful skills.  
- Zinck (M17): Unswaveringly loyal, prude, lazy.  Will now die in the marsh water because I don't want to let him inside the walls.
- Maryna (F40): Incapable of violence or caring.  One of those problems would be okay, but not both.

So only "Kam To" will be rescued.  The others will feed the tree farm as we'll use their bodies to enrich patches of soil.

Growth moment for Jay as he hits age 10.  He's picking up passions for social, construction and animals.  His new trait will be "Kind".

## Sep-3

Wasp reaches age 3 and becomes a child.

## Sep-5

Kam To is leaving us after healing up.  Right when a pack of manhunting raptors has shown up.  We may be rescuing him again.

Delilah has been converted by Parrot.

## Sep-8

The empire's collector is here and Borba did the gold contribution as we had enough for +2 honor with the shattered empire for her.  That gets her up to 'Dame' status even though we've not yet held any promotion ceremonies.  But while the empire's party was milling around, two of them got into a fight and Phoskus killed Nekpho.   Nekpho apparently did something to hurt nearby people as she expired causing everyone to flee.

## Sep-12 (Grant Joins)

And 11 year old highmate girl named Grant wants to join. She's a bit like Katlyn with the blue skin and white tail and white cat ears.  Passions in construction and social.  Incapable of violence, just like Katlyn.

## Sep-14 (Caravan)

In order to deal with the threat to Grant, we're going to have to caravan to destroy an EMI dynamo.  We'll send Borba/Lanca, Ape and Nails plus the two bonded animals.  That should be enough firepower, doctoring and such to deal with a two day trip.

## Sep-15 (Arrival)

The caravan has arrived at the EMI dynamo site.  They've destroyed it and are heading home.

## Dec-2 (Return, Katlyn Pregnancy, Furona Dynasty Raid)

The caravan has returned to Baida.

And... Katlyn is pregnant again with their fourth child.

Followed by a small raid party from Furona Dynasty.

## Dec-5 (Grant Converts)

Hawk managed to convert Grant to our ideology.

## Dec-6 (Cagu Adulthood)

Cagu has become an adult.  She's going to pickup burning passions in shooting, cooking and crafting.  But there are no good choices for her traits out of the five offered.

## Dec-7

Primitive Jubilee tonight.

## Dec-9

Growth moment for Hornet.  He has reached age 10.  He is picking up the early bird trait, shooting passion and burning passions for construction and social.

## Dec-14

Tumala (M27) has joined after being rescued from a crashed transport pod.  Is has the tough, too smart and psychically sensitive traits and is incapable of artistic work.  Passions are in animals, construction, social and intellectual.

## Dec-15 (Industrial Tech)

We have unlocked Industrial Tech and gained a cornerstone point of Marksman (+5% to shooting accuracy).

# 5508

## Apr-3 (Grant Adulthood)

Kalen Grant has become an adult at age 13.  She picked up a burning passion for construction on top of her existing passions for social and intellectual.  She already had a burning passion for art.  She has picked up the masochist trait.  Looking at her next to Katlyn, Grant's skin is more purple.

Fibrous mechanites have infected our tribe again: Grant, Cagu, Ape and Elephant.

## Apr-6

Katlyn goes into labor.  A healthy baby girl is born and named Braga 'Robin' Elephant.

## Jul-5 (Jay Adulthood)

Jay reaches adulthood.  He is picking up the great memory trait and burning passions for construction/animals/mining.

Finch/Tumala have a social fight.









